Meeting Title: Networking Research Interview (Jennifer Chambers)
Date: Dec 18
Meeting participants: Jenniferchambers Rn

Transcript:
 
Me: Good morning.  
Them: Morning.  
Me: Can you hear me? Okay?  
Them: I can.  
Me: All right. Perfect. Well, first off, thank you so much for taking the time to chat with me this morning. I really appreciate it. Finding people to talk to has been incredibly challenging. It's kind of like applying for jobs. Just like you send it out into the black hole and you hope that someone responds. And I really appreciate that you did. So first off, thank you very much.  
Them: Sure.  
Me: I figure what would be a good way to start is just to just give you an idea of why I kind of said in my email. But I'm looking for people to talk to that are frustrated with everything that's wrong with the job market and professional networking. And I'm working with a venture studio right now. I've been here for about a month and a half after myself spending about a year and a half. Looking for a job after climbing the corporate ladder for 25 years and experiencing it firsthand for myself. So now I'm here trying to help. Maybe solve some of these problems. And I'm trying to just talk to people, the validate some of our ideas. So I was kind of hoping maybe you could maybe start me off with just a little bit about yourself and introduce me to you. I don't really know you, so any kind of high level introduction would be a good start.  
Them: Okay? Sure. So of course, my name is Jennifer. I am roughly 44, have been a nurse for about 20, almost 20 years. Have been in the healthcare field for about 24 or 25. Let's see. I have been in leadership for a long time, and it just seemed to be getting. The environment. The culture is just changing. And it just seems to be more and more. Toxicity in the workplace. More and more demands and things like that. And then, you know, of course, less resources to work with. So I'm sure everyone has that same. Struggle, but. I have been working like, I actually have moved three different positions this year. I actually worked with a company called Executive Career Upgrades with Kim Madden. Just to try to, like, get my resume looking the way that it needed to be, network, you know, more appropriately for this day and age, try to get past the AI stuff and all of that. And so they did help me, you know, kind of land my Director of Nursing position this year. To an extent. And then I actually, after I had that job, a recruiter called me and offered me a position as an executive director, which would have been an admin, so a step up. With Good Shepherd Hospice. I ended up taking that job, and I feel like I just went from one toxic environment to a next. This year, even though you know when you're interviewing, you really feel like the culture is going to be great and they're going to be supportive and they have all this training lined up. For you. And, you know all these things, that's just not the reality of how it works. When you get there, they pretty much jump ship. You're pretty much left on your own, and then, you know, kind of like. Almost like just left to fail. So that's. That's just kind of been my experience this year.  
Me: Okay? I can relate to a couple things you said. I'm 45, so I'm right in your age range there. And my wife is actually a nurse practitioner, so she works in a bunch of different hospitals and is also a travel nurse. And I'm hearing all the different horror stories. Of nursing and health care and all that. And before I got laid off, I was working in health tech for about 10 years as a VP of Product for a bunch of technology companies. So I'm definitely in that space I guess so to say and I guess I'd like to know from you. Why do you think that's kind of a loaded question, and I don't want to lead your answer here, but where do you think that that toxicity comes from that you experience? Do you think it's just bad luck with the organizations you've landed at, or do you think it's something deeper? Than that.  
Them: I don't think it's bad luck. I think, honestly, everyone, like, you know, wants to have this culture of support and all of that. And the reality is, is that the leaders can't get the corporate professionals can't give the support because of all of the things that they are having to do. They don't have good leaders in place that know how to lead. So just. And I always. I think everybody has room to grow. So I'm not, like, you know, obviously 100%, like, the best leader, because if I were, then I would know how to navigate this landscape a little bit more. I feel like. I am. I'm pretty direct and I'm pretty transparent. But I always have, like, my team's best interest at heart. I always have, you know, like, the patient's best interest at heart. Like, we're always, you know, trying to get to this goal of let's take care of the patient in the best way possible, but let's also have some work. Life balance. And let's make sure that we're taking care of our employees. Like, I feel like that's my job as a manager, especially mid level management that I've been in, you know, for the last probably 10, 15 years. I think what I'm seeing here recently is that leaders don't know how to lead. So, like my corporate person, if a staff member has an issue with me and they can go to the person above me in the path, when I have had good leaders, they are like, you know, that's just not something that I would expect from that person. Let's all sit down and talk together and see if we can work this out. Or let's grab a phone call, you know, because we're, you know, now, you know, you get up into regional positions and things like that. We're a little bit more remote. So it's like, let's hop on a phone call. Let's figure this out. Or first step is, have you even tried talking this out with your, you know, peer or your manager or something of that nature before you have escalated, you know, to this chain and now I'm not experiencing that. Employees are just, you know, they're going either to the compliance hotline or they're going to, you know, people that are well above you with misinformation because they haven't talked to you. To figure out, like, what's actually going on. Like, what did you mean by that? Like, if communication. And that's all it is, it's communication, right? So if communication wasn't clear for one person, instead of them having an actual conversation with their manager, with their peer, they're just going steps above. And I feel like I have seen that in the last three organizations that I've been at, and it's. It's quite alarming because, like, when I would go to my leader and say, well, I mean, That's like a half truth or they're misconstruing certain things. And I don't know that they're intentionally misconstruing things, but they certainly have a misunderstanding of the situation. And so when I would ask my leader to, hey, the next time do you, you think you could just, like, redirect them back to me so that we can have that conversation, so we can build that relationship, so that we can have that trust. Because as a new person coming in, Obviously they have trust with you because you've been here a few years, but I have to be able to build that trust. So just, like, shift them back my way. I'll have a conversation. I'll see if we can clear things up. And if we can't, then of course we can. All three. Sit down. Four of us, whatever the case may be, and let's try to work it out. And my leaders do not understand that. Well, the complaints about you. No, but. But it's not about me. It's about communication and a misunderstanding. So to build the trust, they have to talk to me. I have to be able to talk to them. And they won't give me names. They won't, you know, like, it's all this, like, well, I can't tell you who it was. And there's just. I don't know if that's a fear of like. Then things will look like retaliation. But then I feel like it's just like. There's just. No. There's no support there. And if you don't have that kind of support. Then you don't have the support of saying, like, like the last couple of jobs, I went into the interview saying, I have never done this position before, but I am a quick learner, I am a hard worker and I will dig in and do what needs to be done. You know, as long as you give me the training. I can do the job. Okay. When we talk about the training. Yep. You'll be set up with so and so. They're going to be with you for six weeks, you know, eight weeks, whatever the course is. And then the reality is, when I jump in the job, literally one week into it, All of a sudden, they can no longer support me. They're off to another project, they're off doing something else. And I'm just left with, like, no information, you know, because the training plan when they were quote, unquote, supporting me for the first week was just, oh, get to know everybody. Let's go do these meet and greets. It's not actual, like. Information that's going to help you in your job. So I just feel like there's a lack of education and training and a lack of leadership. And I don't even. I don't think they're training leaders like the youth to. I mean, I got the best leadership training when I was a new leader 15 years ago. Then I have in the last 15 years. You know, like, I haven't had that amount of leadership training since I actually. Like, started in leadership. So I think there's. It's multifaceted.  
Me: Yeah. And I've been. I've been seeing similar things, you know, myself. So I think that everything you're saying definitely checks out for me. I want to go back to the executive career upgrades. I'm familiar with them. With them specifically, were you trying to just, like. Was it really just about getting your resume? Polished up to try to land. A more interesting opportunity. I think you covered on that a little bit. I want to go a little bit deeper there. Like, what was your objective with, like, getting into that program? Was it just the resume, or was it, like. I guess. Why don't you go a little deeper?  
Them: So did you think you are or are not familiar with it?  
Me: There. I am. I am familiar, yes.  
Them: Okay, so my. My objective with that was the resume building, which I feel like they were phenomenal with. They did. They also had, like, a system where it was instead of, like. I know there's a lot of systems out there that will, like, hit the. Like it's an AI and it's like an automated system for hitting. Oh, what do I want to say? Like, when a job hits the market, like, you're automatically applying to jobs that are within, you know, that scope. That's not what this was. But it was an automated system of networking with particular people in the place that you wanted to be. I never actually used that method. I didn't end up needing to my own network as well as, you know, recruiters. Finding my updated profile on LinkedIn actually helped me.  
Me: Oh, yeah. Yep.  
Them: To land the couple of positions that I got. They did help me negotiate up. So, like, they helped me formulate a negotiation letter. To, you know, negotiate up my salary to about ten grand, which really. Honestly probably could have done on my own, with my own, you know, like, chat, GPT or whatever. But it was good to have that feedback and that real time talk. You know, there's all kinds of classes and things just to kind of give you, like, the mindset change as part of it. Just different things like that. And just what kind of a networking group? I think. I think they do a great. I like the program for what they do. I think they actually do do the work that they say they're going to do. Whenever you enter that program, I still feel like it was a waste of my money. And my time, because then I still end up landing in these positions that just aren't something that's going to work out for me. And honestly, at this point, I've decided that the corporate world is just probably not for me. I'm just going to start my own business and run things the way I need it to run because it's just too frustrating for me to sit here and, and think that I'm, you know, putting in, you know, 60, 70 hour work weeks for corporation that literally does not invest in you and does not care about you. There's, there's, there's got to be. A better way, you know?  
Me: Yeah. Yeah, completely. I think the last kind of question I wanted to get to is we're kind of running out of time here. I don't want to take up more time than you've offered. So I'm wondering about just networking in general, so especially if you're going to go start your own thing, you know? Being able to get yourself out there and the real human connections is going to become pretty important for you. How active are you on LinkedIn? Do you like it? Do you use it a lot? Do you have any other means of networking that you do?  
Them: So on LinkedIn. I do try to post at least weekly and comment at least weekly. That doesn't always happen, but I do try to stay pretty true to that. And I do like LinkedIn again. I think that that's what kind of has helped, you know, recruiters find me. But I do have other, you know, I have my own personal contacts and networks. Just, honestly, just friends that I have acquired throughout the years that I, you know, I just always try to maintain good personal relationships when I leave a position, when I, you know, whatever. Kind of my strategy. I never take a work phone. I always take my own. I always keep my own cell phone, and I enter all my contacts into my own personal cell instead of having a separate work cell phone so that those contacts can come with me if needed. But also just because it reduces, you know, like, I know that people can get a hold of me, and I know that I can. I can be available when needed. But so, you know, just having that network that I can build on, you know, from past employees and things like that, but also just events, like, I just try to talk to people when I'm out and about in, you know. Any setting, you know, about things. And so as I'm newly, you know, out of the workforce, so if I'm kind of navigating where I'm going for the next thing, I'll just figure out where that needs to be and I'll go to those functions and I'll network.  
Me: Gotcha. Yeah. And then are you. Are you doing a lot of in. In person networking? Like, how. How. How often would you say you do that?  
Them: So I've only done that. I mean, obviously, you're in person, networking at every. Every event. Every corporate event that you're in. Like, honestly, any situation that you're talking to a parent. You know, of. Of another child or something. I mean, like, I honestly feel like that's your networking all the time, so just being mindful of, you know, finding out what people do, finding out more about them, you know, just making sure that you're consistently, you know, kind of friendly and just kind of keeping them. On your toes there. So, I mean, as far as that goes, I just try to keep my ears open and, and you know, kind of stay in tuned with who's doing what so that if I do have a resource somewhere, but I like planned events, I would say that I've probably been to 1, probably 2. In the last, you know, year. That was outside of, like, my job.  
Me: Gotcha. And are you pretty much focused on your own local community? I would imagine you're not. You know, I know that with your line of work, remote work probably isn't as common. So you're probably focused on your own local community quite a bit, right?  
Them: I mean, ish. I actually have been a remote worker for six or seven years before this year.  
Me: Oh. Okay?  
Them: Yeah, I worked from home as a telephonic case manager and then moved up the ladder to a director level position of case management and triage and things like that. So it's not super uncommon. I think it's becoming more common, but.  
Me: Gotcha.  
Them: Yeah, so most. But most of my in person events. Yeah, those are gonna. Those are local.  
Me: Okay? Okay? Well, perfect. I know we're definitely at time here. Jennifer, thank you so much for taking the time to speak with me. This was really helpful for me. I really appreciate it. And, you know, feel free to connect with me on LinkedIn. You have my, my thing in the email and we can go from there. So thank you so much. I really appreciate it.  
Them: Yeah. Thank you. Hope you help. You do well with all this.  
Me: Okay? Thank you so much. Take care. Bye.  
Them: All right. 