Meeting Title: 30 min with Jake (Andrew Collado)
Date: Dec 4
Meeting participants: Arcollado03

Transcript:
 
Them: Hey, Jake, how are you?  
Me: Hey. Good answer. How are you? Good to see you.  
Them: Great. Likewise. Likewise.  
Me: Yeah. Thanks for taking us. Have a chat with me. I sincerely appreciate it. Getting people to talk to me about anything is way harder than I ever thought it would be. So I really appreciate this.  
Them: You got that right.  
Me: In addition to any help that you can provide to connect with me, with more people that we want to talk to me. I don't know. We can start there, I guess. I have a couple questions. I don't want to take up too much of your time. Do you have the full half hour? Is it okay if we use most of that?  
Them: Yeah, I got the full hour if you need it, man.  
Me: Okay. No, I got another one scheduled at 3:30, so I have a half hour. I guess my first question for you is just that I don't know much about you, but I know you were obviously heavy involved in the hackathon, but I just maybe love to hear, like, a quick overview. Of a. Your story. How you got to the point that you're at, you know, at UB and at what stage of the career cycle you're in right now, and how you got involved with the hackathon might be a good. A good starting point for me.  
Them: Okay. Yeah. Let's start from square one. So came to ub. I originally was in the high school that was dedicated for film. So. I dropped my camera lens, so I took it completely apart.  
Me: Okay?  
Them: Yeah, unfortunate, but just waiting on parts that's coming back. But that's where a little bit of my background is in cinematography. But I knew that that particular market was a little hard to succeed in. So I came to UB originally as an aerospace engineer. I did two years of it. I got my engineering prereqs out of the way, and then once I started taking the aerospace classes, I was like, yeah, this sucks. And I was looking at the majors that I could. Switch to. And I saw computer engineering because I saw the prereqs were already done. It was a completely different domain. Aerospace, mechanical, civil, industrial. They kind of have quite a bit of overlap. In many aspects, and computer engineering was one of those that was just completely separate from the domain. And I was like, you know what, Let me try this. And I ended up really liking it. Of course. Right? Because I'm still here, right?  
Me: Good sign.  
Them: Yeah. So I started that. My halfway into sophomore year or something like that. Or maybe it started my junior year. I had a couple of classes rollover, so I didn't start completely from square one, but I did put me back a year. And the way that I got involved with you be hacking was I saw the form come out. I think it was in 2023. Spring. For the position for UB hacking fall 2024.  
Me: Okay?  
Them: Sponsorship was there. Had no idea what that entailed, so I just applied out of the blue. And I ended up getting it. I felt like I was totally unqualified. But I guess I had a way with words that impressed the director at the time. And they were like, yeah, let's do it. And it ended up being a lot of fun. I got a lot of experience connecting with people like yourself, people who are in charge of a lot of different portions in whatever company that they're working in. And I kind of got exposed to. Kind of how the business side of the industry works, Right? I think a lot of times computer science students will get very tunnel vision on the technical aspect that they forget, like, this is a business, right? Like, people are here to make money. And along with the business, there's the politics and the socials. That people kind of overlook quite often, and I was exposed to the very high level overview of that.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: Where I got a little bit into the weeds was when I started working as a software well at the time, sorry, data scientists at Northtown.  
Me: Okay?  
Them: So how I got that job. And this was around the same time as me applying for UB hacking. Sorry if I'm going all over the place here.  
Me: Now this. This is perfect. This is perfect.  
Them: But cool. Cool. So I was looking for a job. I've worked a job pretty much my entire time at ub, and I was just looking for a change. So before applying to North Town, I was working at Delta Sonic as an oil change tech. I applied to North Town to be an autotech just to see if I can get my feet wet in there and they said like yeah, with your current schedule we can't really accommodate school thing. And I was like well you know, I'm a computer science or computer engineering major. Like, do you guys have any internships going on? And they're like, let me see. So my current manager intercepted my resume. And you know as any. Normal person would do. They'd try to find a little bit about who they're going to be interviewing with, and I couldn't. So I get to the interview, I meet this guy. His name's john. And, you know, we're talking. I had a little bit of experience regarding AI at the time. He was like, you know, like, how can we apply AI at the dealership level? I gave some examples in, like, the fixed ops or service side of the dealership, sales and mostly marketing. And I ended up joining the marketing team, the digital marketing team. And some point in the conversation I brought up, I was like, how come I couldn't find any information on you? And he's like, oh, well, me and Dan. Dan is his other coworker. So Dan works under John. We were actually in the FBI as undercover agents for a while, and I was like, oh, that's why.  
Me: Galaxy. Wow.  
Them: Come to find out. You know, a couple months working in. He said that when he got out of undercover, the NSA asked if he wanted his information scrubbed from the Internet, and he was like, sure, why not? And so that's why you can really find anything about him, which I thought was cool.  
Me: Wow, that's a good story.  
Them: Yeah. He's got a ton more stories that I, fortunately, can piggyback off and tell because they're super interesting and more importantly, declassified. But circling back. So start at Northtown as a data scientist. It's a small team at the time. It was a team of four. I was number five. Since then, we've expanded to seven now. And one of my jobs there was to just analyze all the marketing data, prepare some presentations, and that's kind of where I got into the business development experience side of things. Because we're a small team. North Town is a very family oriented company. I worked very closely with the C Suite Chief Marketing Officer especially, so I'd have to give my presentations and whatnot to those guys. And I kind of learned a little bit more about what those dynamics were like, and I was able to apply that to UB hacking. Right. Kind of leverage what I already knew. Because. It's hard when you're a student, right? Like, you're going after these big, grand companies and you're trying to pitch the idea, and you kind of don't really know what you're pitching. Because in your head, it's like, oh, it's just UB hacking. You know, it's an event. Like, why wouldn't you sponsor us? But they obviously needed a little more value proposition out of that, right? And so I was able to convey that.  
Me: Go.  
Them: In a way that my predecessors weren't able to, and so we found a lot of success. With relation to the time, because at the time, there wasn't much hiring. And one of our value props is that we offer recruiting help in terms of resumes, but at the time we did fairly well. And we did even better this year and we hope to do a lot better now. But going back to North Town ended up just being a full fledged software engineer. So now I work on any internal tools that we use, things that we can streamline any automations across the group.  
Me: Go.  
Them: That I can help in on. And then after UB hacking ended, I got reached out to in March saying like, hey, do you want to be a director? I was like, what the hell? What do you mean?  
Me: Go. Go. Go.  
Them: And I was like, yeah, sure, I'm crazy enough. And sure enough, the things took off from there.  
Me: Okay?  
Them: Hired a great team. A lot of my experience at North Tunnels, being able to recognize the certain traits that you're looking for in an effective team, and I think we did a great job of hiring the right people and also. Sharing that enthusiasm with everyone, because one of the biggest reasons of success for this year especially, was that almost everyone on the team was excited about the event. They wanted to see it happen. And so when you have that, along with the work ethic that these kids had, oh, my God. It was like flawless execution.  
Me: Yeah. You know, I have to say, like, and I'm not just. I have no incentive for, you know, giving empty compliments, but, like, that was a really impressive event. Like, I had never been to anything like it before, so I don't have a measuring stick. Right. But, like, coming in as a, you know, you. Know, I have 25 years experience in tech. I don't come from academia. I actually started a company when I was from high school and I kind of did that in lieu of educating higher education.  
Them: Yes.  
Me: So, like, I don't. I don't even have that, like, knowledge at all, right. But, like, going into that environment.  
Them: Y. Es.  
Me: Was like, it was really impressive. It was a world class event and you guys should be really proud of what you put on. I thought that was, you know, and so many of the presentations were just really jaw dropping. Like, I can't believe, you know, I'm like 45, so it's like, you're all kids to me, you know, but, like, it's, like, really impressive to see early, early career professionals, like, kicking ass and taking names, you know? That's. That's. It was really cool to see that happen.  
Them: Yes. Yes, it's an event that. It's captivating, right?  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: You would never expect something so grand from students. Especially now with the AI tools, I think that just added even more complexity to things. Because in the past, this year we hit a record number of submissions to be judged. And I think people were able to follow through on their ideas more. Because they didn't have to worry about compilation issues.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: Right. They work on the architecture or the core idea and the fundamentals of what they were building.  
Me: Y. Eah.  
Them: And I think it's like a beautiful thing. Honestly.  
Me: Yeah. And also, like, a lack of mentorship is probably also a key point, because if you go back, like, what. What a hackathon was five years ago, Right? You were using mostly established technologies, and, like, you had people that you could lean on that, like, knew these things. And now suddenly, like, no one is an expert in AI. AI experts don't exist because it's brand new for everyone. Right? So, like, the. The playing field has just been leveled in a really, like, unique way that we haven't really seen before.  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: And, like, what used to be this corporate ladder that you would climb over the years and gain this experience and become like, Oh, I have 25 years experience. I'm this, like, expert in my field. Like, it just squashes it. It's just. It's like the. The playing field is just leveled and it's. It's really exciting. Terrifying. All. All kind of wrapped into one, but, you know, it's. It's really. It's really interesting. I want to ask a couple questions about, so. It's. First off, I think it's awesome that you've been able to kind of, like, enter into the workforce while still in school and doing something that's applicable. To your field. Like, that is, like, kudos to you because it's. It's not like that for everyone. I think that you, you know, not to, like, you know, tack onto the Thanksgiving holiday here and say, oh, you should be so, so thankful. But, like, you know, it's a. It's the job. Market is a mess right now.  
Them: Yes.  
Me: So one of the things that we're kind of focusing on here is trying to improve the way that we connect people in the local community. Right. Because all we really have is LinkedIn.  
Them: Yes.  
Me: Right? And it's LinkedIn and, like, who you know and who you can get introduced to. Like, that's all we have. Right. So we're trying to come up with just to give you a real brief overview of what it is I think I already get. I kind of gave you a little bit of snippet over email, but we're trying to come up with a UI free. So there's no app to download, it's just you. You text a number.  
Them: Y. Es.  
Me: And you essentially start a conversation with what's an AI bot, and it gets to know you. Maybe there's a voice call, like you have like a five minute conversation with it. You tell about yourself. You give it some overview, right? Maybe you upload your or attach your GitHub or your, you know, you upload your resume or like you feed it a bunch of information if those are profile on you. And now you tell it what your goals are, and if you ever get to a point where, like, hey, I'm looking for a mentor that knows, you know, next JS or something, and, like, whatever. And it can. It can be, oh, yeah, I have a few mentors in the network that I can introduce you to. Let me see who's available. And it can go out and say, hey, I've got Andrew who's, you know, this is this that no thing. And he's looking for a mentor that knows, you know, next JS do you have any availability? And it kind of matches you and puts you together. You both kind of have to turn the keys to say that we want to talk.  
Them: Y. Es.  
Me: And then it kind of does an introduction.  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: And it's like one very basic use case. But you can imagine it's, you know, in some ways, it's kind of like. A dating app, but for business. Where it's like matching people based off of the things that matter to each side.  
Them: Y. Eah.  
Me: Right. Almost like a AI matchmaker, but in a professional sense. And, you know, there's obviously a whole bunch of different use cases, but that's like kind of, I guess, a common use case that we've used. And then, because I feel like a lot of what's happening in the world today is, that jobs aren't found by a job board and a resume, and someone reviewing a resume and saying, oh, this person feels like a good fit like that, that model is collapsing.  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: And it feels like a lot of jobs that are happening now are because you know someone and you have a connection and, you know, oh, I know that Andrew does this thing with data at North Town, and he's, he's accomplished these things there and. But, you know, there might be an opportunity for him to, like. You know, double his salary if he went over to this other company and did X. Right. And, like, that type of thing is what we're trying to, like, develop. Right? And we're at the stage now where we're just trying to get a sense of a lot of the pain points that people are feeling. With the networking and, like, you know, I mean, we could probably. You know, I'm not sure how much you're on LinkedIn or how much you use that, but it's like shouting into a black hole. Like, it's just completely meaningless. And I'm. I guess I'll start there, like. Do you use LinkedIn? Do you use it for anything? Is it valuable? Valuable for you in any way, shape or form?  
Them: Yeah. Okay? It's like any social media app. You see a lot of posts on there that are like, I'm proud to accomplish this and that, and it's like, You made this project with an LLM at night just so that you could post it on LinkedIn.  
Me: Ative.  
Them: Yes, very performative. But also it depends on how you use it, right? Tech Buffalo, for example, them using it as a platform to. Share news about the current state of the market, for example. Using it as, like, an actual news source. Versus trying to be performative about your achievements and your accomplishments, which I think is great, as long as it's authentic. Right.  
Me: Yeah, right.  
Them: Sharing things that are going on in the industry, but the way that I use it is very sparse, you know, of course I had some more activity on it this year to promote UB hacking. And, you know, give. Give my graces to the community as well, but. I think before that, it's really just. I was never much of a poster, just a scroller.  
Me: Right.  
Them: And seeing who is in my network. Doing what? Right. And yeah. I'm not a very good. Research study for LinkedIn just cause I really don't use it that much.  
Me: Yeah. And I think that's going to be very common. Right. And I think that's why I kind of want to ask these questions. But I think one of the question I do have for you, like if. North town, the job didn't exist. Westher comes in advisive and whatever. The job is not there anymore. You're like, what would you do? Like what? And you're like, you know what? I need to find something else. You know, would you leverage the connections that you've already made? And, like, how deep does that network go today? And then, like, I guess, how would you approach that job punch if you had to do it today?  
Them: Yeah, for sure. I mean, the first thing I would do is text all my buddies that I made over the years and say, hey, just lost my job. You guys got anything lined up? No. I'm just kidding. But, yeah, definitely leverage my network. Hop on indeed. Or whatever job board is on there and start just mass applying. Yeah, that would be, like, the top two things I do.  
Me: And. And if you did need to, like, you know, I think that there's. This desire to want to stand out. I think you probably heard some horror stories about, like, oh, I apply and apply and apply and, you know, I don't hear back, like, do you have any strategy that you. That would be your go to on, like, what you would do to try to stand out from the crowd?  
Them: I mean, I'll apply on a job board. Like, for example, I'll apply to ACV Auctions for their Software Junior software position. And then I'll see if I can find the hiring manager and just send them a quick message. Whether on LinkedIn or if I can find a phone number. The phone number one seems to catch people off guard sometimes in a good or a bad way. They're like, how'd you get this number? I'm like software man. I don't know.  
Me: Nobody talks on the phone anymore.  
Them: But yeah, just sending the hiring manager a quick message email is a good one as well. And also just asking places that don't have open positions to see if they are trying to fill an internal position that they might have not put public facing just yet. But maybe my resume stands out a little more than the internal applicants. For example, You never know, right? You never know the situation of what is going on in the company, so you kind of just have to tack it at as many angles as you can to give yourself the best shot.  
Me: Yeah, I. I guess I'm wondering also about your perspective on, like, how far ahead you look in your career. Like, are you. Do you have a pretty clear view of what you think you want to be doing in five years, or are you just, like, you know, what with the way things are moving. Who knows? And you're just kind of taking it in short term bursts.  
Them: I'm definitely teeter tottering between wanting to be this grand technical master in whatever that I enjoy. In this case, it would be like AI and machine learning. I'm actually training a model right now. As we speak, and it's taking forever. Yeah. So I'm teeter tottering between wanting to be like a technical master in my field. And also wanting to start a business. My experience in the automotive industry tells me that it's very untapped in terms of technology and especially in artificial intelligence. So I have my business plan right now, just in case. But that's one of those things that becomes a side project that doesn't get looked after as often as it should. But I think once I make the mental decision of saying, okay, I want to do this full time,  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: Then I'll know exactly where I stand on that seesaw.  
Me: Yeah, and I know you're not asking, but I'm going to give you the advice anyway. Do that. Like that would be if I. You know, if you have the. And I could already tell you have the. The gumption, right? You have those skills to be able to go and do that just from seeing what you've done with it with a hackathon, and just, you know, you have the right stuff to go do that and like that. 's being your own boss and, like, being able to, like, carve your own path and not be someone who just trades their time for money. Is probably a very smart decision.  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: I would. I would. I would encourage you to go that route, you know? Just because, you know, there's. Even if you have what is, you know, a good, reliable job. There's still no job security, right? Things could. Things could change tomorrow, right? Like I said, like Westher could swoop in and buy north out and everything could change tomorrow. Like that. Just. That's just the nature of capitalism, right? So.  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: Yeah, that's good. That. That really gives me a really good kind of snapshot of you and how you use LinkedIn. And I guess the last thing is, like, do you use random? Because we're considering building this on as a WhatsApp app. Do you use WhatsApp?  
Them: No, not at all. Actually, maybe sometimes, because I have some family that lives in Dominican Republic, so I use it to call them, but definitely not often. No.  
Me: Okay. Yeah, because, like, if we go, like, Text first. We're trying to navigate that, like, combination of if I'm an iPhone user and you're an Android user, like, how do we, like, we can't go just imessage, we can't use just sms and, like, RCS isn't, like, mature enough to, like, solve some of those group. Chat issues that we have. So it's like, how do we do it? We're just trying to figure out some of the logistics of that. And then. Okay, yeah, I think that was. That was the last. The last question I had for you. Any questions for me?  
Them: Yeah. I'm really interested. I mean, we got five minutes here. I don't know how in depth you can go, but I'm really interested to know what you guys are doing with the data capture aspect of that.  
Me: What's what specifically?  
Them: So, for example, you're feeding the AI model. For the matching algorithm, things about your GitHub, your personal life and things like that.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: Are you guys using that to leverage some sort of database, or is it purely just for the algorithm?  
Me: We are only in the earliest stage of the development of it. Like, we have a very basic proof of concept that is using, like, Twilio to engage, like, some voice conversations with a phone number that we build out. And we have, like, some very basic infrastructure just to get, like, a proof of concept working. But we haven't we haven't touched any of that yet. I think that the way our model works here at the studio is we come up with an idea either internally or externally.  
Them: Nice.  
Me: And the first thing we do is we try to validate that idea before we go full into end of building. So we want to. That's part of the phase that we're now is talking to all the different Personas that we would want to address. Students, being one of those mentors, being one of those hiring managers, being one of those coaches. And solopreneurs being one of those. Right. And trying to like each one of those is a different set of questions to try to validate. Like, is there a pain point here? And do we think that our solution would validate that pain point? And then we're kind of. We unlock the gate to say, okay, we have enough positive signals here and not enough red flags to stop it. And now we think it's worth the next stage of investment, which then we get into some of that, like, more realistic architecture. So at the studio level, that's kind of like the process that we follow, and that's the stage that we're a knot.  
Them: Okay? Got it.  
Me: So still premature. But if that's the kind of thing you're interested in as we move forward with this, like, I have no problem keeping in the loop and being like, hey, here's how we did this and here's how we're doing that and whatever else, like, we're always looking for voices and opinions and things like that. And, you know, we were. We want to lean on the community, right? Like, we want to kind of. I wouldn't say build in public. We don't want to, like, lower the curtain, but. But at the same time, it's like we want to be a little more open and forthcoming with how we do things here.  
Them: Perfect.  
Me: Because we do, we do think it's for the benefit of the community, you know, at large.  
Them: Okay? Sounds good. Yeah. The reason I ask is because I met someone at a bar the other week. And they said they wanted to work on an app to do this one thing, but that the core reasoning behind their project was for data capture. And in my head, I'm like, well, that's kind of fucked up. I feel like that's, like, one of those things where you have this one application and then you're making a layer to obfuscate what you really want. Are you working for Palantir? Dude.  
Me: No, like our. Our. Our intention would be to collect that data and keep it private without ever intending to sell it or use it for nefarious purposes. Right. It's really just for the intention of doing the matching. That? Was that soy the intention?  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: And there are some, like, Monetary things about, like, how we would compensate ourselves for, like, making this a business. And that's going to be more along the lines of connecting mentors with mentees. Because a lot of, a lot of organizations like UB, for example, have mentorship programs where they want to like, validate that the mentors or mentoring and that there's some, some ROI between that relationship. And they would. They've indicated that that those organizations might be willing to pay to have oversight over those relationships. Either through, like, summaries of their mentoring and things like that. So that's kind of like the financial model that we're toying with right now.  
Them: Okay?  
Me: But it wouldn't be about selling any data. You know?  
Them: Yeah, got it. Yeah, no, that was just my concern.  
Me: Yeah. That sounds good. Well, Andrew, thank you so much for your time. Really appreciate it. And we'll. I'll make sure I'm not a stranger. We'll be in touch.  
Them: Yeah, absolutely. Thank you so much.  
Me: Okay? Awesome.  
Them: Really looking forward to see how this goes. And one last question, actually.  
Me: Sure.  
Them: Considering the domain that we're talking. In. How much do you guys pay your junior deps?  
Me: I. I don't even know. I. I'm. I'm a contractor, and I do not have those. I don't have access to that information. But if I can find out, I'll. I'll shoot you a range.  
Them: Got.  
Me: All right, cool.  
Them: All right, jake.  
Me: Thanks, man. Take it. Take care. Bye. Bye.  
Them: Take care. Bye. Bye. 