Meeting Title: GG Discovery Session (Mike Cornell)
Date: Dec 10
Meeting participants: Mcornell304

Transcript:
 
Me: Hey, michael.  
Them: Hey, John, how are you?  
Me: I am. Well, thanks for taking the time today.  
Them: You go by john or Jonathan?  
Me: Jonathan.  
Them: Okay? All right? Just live. And Mike is fine for me, just so you know. So I feel like now that I see, I recognize the name. We met at some 4th BE north event somewhere along the line in the last year. I feel like now that I see.  
Me: Yeah, I think at the AI talk panel, I did right with m and t.  
Them: Yeah, that's exactly what it was. Okay. There it is. I don't always remember. I'm not always the best. Like, I remember a face and I remember a name. I always remember the bass and the name.  
Me: Sure.  
Them: So I apologize for that.  
Me: No worries. I totally understand. Yeah, well, I want to kind of be respectful of your time here. I'm doing market discovery. On a product idea, and I'm talking to kind of a swath of the market now, and I'm trying to get perspectives on specific pain points that we're going after. Would you mind kind of starting to be a brief background on yourself and what you're doing currently?  
Them: Yeah, so. 30 plus year career in K12 education was a teacher. Assistant principal, principal, 10 years in school superintendent six of the 10 years. I was also the president of the Erie Niagara School Superintendents Association. So pretty good line of sight into what's going on in K12. I was also had a leadership role in the State New York State Council School superintendents. For a bunch of years and a lot of interactions with elected officials, other public officials. A lot of conversation locally with people here. I don't know if you know joe stephco, the guy who's the head of the westcrc tech hub.  
Me: I know the name.  
Them: The federal designated tech hub. So interactions with Joe and people like Bill Maggio and others around just kind of generally that work of trying to create, you know, an investment in tech infused ecosystem here in western New York. You know, I currently serve as the president of Hilbert College. So now in my role here, I have line of sight into trying to create industry partnerships. I mean, you've, you know, all higher ed, whether they know it or not, are kind of sitting at the intersection of two markets, right? One side we have the market of prospective students. And whoever you pay in the bill, their parents or whomever. And they're trying to de risk their investment. In education beyond high school. Whether it's de risk it in terms of the amount of time that they need to get the credential they want. Not everybody wants to do four years or two years. Sometimes they want to do a one year certification program or a badge or something like that. You know, but they also, whatever that time and financial commitment is, they want to know through that institution. That there is the likelihood of a job on the other side. Then you've got the marketplace of prospective employers. And they also are in the business to try and de risk an investment. Right. How do they do? What's their investment impact on program? Whether it's the presence of a program or the construction of a program, You know, sometimes it's getting line of sight into the students we have through paid internships and unpaid internships. Mentoring and things like that. So you know, I've been here for five months. I'm going to be here. Here is an interim, and I'm going to be here for a while. There doesn't seem to be a rush to do anything. You know, it takes a while to get a permanent precedent, and we're doing a lot of really good things here, so I'm going to sit tight here for a bit. And keep doing what I'm doing. So it's an interesting business. And, you know, frankly. Are you a native western New Yorker? I probably, yeah. Oh, that's. You're a hamburger.  
Me: I am. I grew up in hamburg.  
Them: Grad.  
Me: St. Francis.  
Them: St. Francis says I won't hold that against you. But I do remember you saying that you're a hamburger guy. So, I mean, you know, I mean, there's all kinds of parochialism in Western New York. That you're very familiar with. And, you know, one of the results of that is that, you know, The K to 16 education continuum has largely existed. On its own. With. With. Limited or ad hoc. Opportunities for temporary alignment. Between the work we do in our business and. And what? Potential industry partners might be doing. So, you know, that's a. That's a general pain point that I've worked to bridge, you know, throughout my time. As a superintendent, and now in this role. But that's my. That's my deal. You know, I've been around a bunch and done some stuff and had some relationships, and, you know, at this point in my life, I just want to be helpful.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: I might not. I might not be youthful, but I can still be useful, I guess is the way I look at it.  
Me: There you go. That help comes in droves as you age, right?  
Them: Yeah. Yeah.  
Me: So that's really interesting. Some of the pain points you're touching on. Because I just got off the phone with a local employer responsible for creating hundreds of jobs. And without any prompting, he kind of went on this tangent on his frustration in higher ed and how he can create better talent pipelines for his organization. And ultimately, he was in this place of somewhat giving up. Right. That.  
Them: Give them my contact information.  
Me: I will certainly. And this kind of like where I'm headed, right, with this idea. And so I'm curious, from your perspective, how do you identify this promising top talent or even early career emerging talent as they come through higher ed?  
Them: Like. Yeah. Good. I don't know. I don't know that there's. I mean, I think for. Except for some of the programs that UB offers. So we'll set that. We'll set that aside like you're, you know, 99. Average student with a 1550 on his SAT to graduates from St. Francis and wants to go into UB0 space program. You know, that's a very small slice of the potential college. Eligible population, right? So the rest of us get who we get. You know, so we're not necessarily identifying top talent and drawing those students to our institutions. Right? I mean, more and more of us. Like, if you look at, like, Damon, I mean, we've been doing it for years. The only growth area in higher education right now are one of the few growth areas is in underserved, underprivileged populations. So what we're looking at. And most of us are, whether they want to say it or not. We're looking at high ceiling. High aptitude. Heretofore low achieving students. Who we can bring into our systems. And help them grow and thrive and. Change what has been like a generational barrier, which is access to a higher education into a generational benefit or blessing. That's what we're all doing. We're literally all in that business. You look at Buffalo State, you look at Damon, even Kencius, to a significant degree, they just offered free tuition if you came from a few certain zip codes, which is, again, an opportunity or an effort to attract high aptitude. High ceiling, low achieving. To this point, students. So it's not so much trying to, like, identify who these high enders are and getting them to come to our institutions. It's very much. Thank you. It's very much, you know, mining through who we have. In figuring out how we unlock the potential that we know is there.  
Me: I love that. Right. Mining through who you have. So how do you do that? Do you have tools? System software?  
Them: We're in the people business, man. I know it'd be easy if we had an algorithm or a sorting mechanism. It's Elba to elbow, knee to knee. It's that. Because you. I mean, I did this my whole life. So you don't know what's inside until you find out what's inside. And you only do that by, like, working with somebody and building a relationship, because you got to remember who these kids are. These kids. They come from a single parent household, and often that single single parent was absent. They're caring for siblings, they're caring for nieces and nephews. They've been let down by 80% of the adults who have ever been in their lives. So when they come to us, they're muscle memory is that. That's that we're going to let them down to. They will only give us a chance. But their predisposition is. Adults have generally let me down. These people probably are going to also. And they'll work really hard to push us away.  
Me: A lot of.  
Them: Even at this age, even at the age of 18 or 19 or 20 years old. And you've got to. Just be there still, you know, so. So it's a lot of. It's a lot of relationship building. It's a lot of. Of that kind of stuff. Now that's not to say we don't have really high end kids here, because we do. We have them in our four plus one programs. There are three plus three programs, Ub. People want to go be lawyers like I. We have. We do have some really high end kids. But. Like they come to us, we sort through what we have. And we do everything we can to unlock the potential that's in each and that's in each of them. And, and, and, and then. So that's, that's. Once that, and once that market has revealed itself to us in a freshman class or a transfer class, Right. Then it's our job to figure out or help them figure out for themselves. Whether talents lie, where their interests lie, and how we can help them maximize the potential that they have. But match it up then with an industry partner. Which is something that higher ed is not good at doing to the conversation that your friend had with you. Like we're bad at that. Flat out bad. It. You know, there are pockets of excellence. But we don't have too many habits of excellence when it comes to that stuff. So what I'm trying to do here in Hilbert is build some habits of excellence around making good connections with, with our industry partners. We have that law enforcement in space. We have, we have law enforcement agencies who come to us from all over the place. To take our students before they graduate. More and more as we grow. Things like our cybersecurity programming, you know, our, our programs in whether it's, you know, pre law, human services. Things like that, you know, and. And I would call them tech adjacent. You know, whether it's. We have lots of business programs, accounting, that kind of stuff. But, I mean, here's a something to think about, too. You know, we have so many. Occupations intact that are not. Four year tech engineering degree requirements. But you know what, I talk to people. Like if you're talking to Odoo, he would also love to probably hire a whole bunch of people that have gone through, you know, a one year certification program to be a technologist in some of their programs. You know, our workforce participation rate was in New York covers sometime somewhere around like 60 or 62%. Like nationally, it's been no higher than 70 for the last 45 years. So what does that mean? It means that 4 out of every 10 working age people who are eligible to work and able to work don't. And why is that? Drug use, mental illness. That kind of stuff. So, you know, to me, you know, our behavioral health folks or mental health folks. Our tech adjacent. A lot of these people are white males between the age of 25 and 40. Because they have mental illness. They've, you know, they've self medic, self diagnosed and self medicated that mental illness to the point where they can't leave the house. There's tons of those people hanging around out there.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: It's a bit of. I've taken you out a bit of a tangent, but that's. But that's the. That's the reality of young people today.  
Me: Good.  
Them: Like the greatest underused resource in western New York is our people. So.  
Me: Stick with me for a while.  
Them: Yeah, and it's a fact, like, you can. You can look through any data source you want. That's a fact. You know, for every 1% we drop the poverty rate, we probably increase the GDP of the region by $10 million. Probably. Probably, you know, probably 5x that, probably 50 million, so. You know, that's. That's like the. The pain points are. Are. Are getting people through high school to college. And at least some with. With some ability to succeed. And do well. A part of the pain. Point is, once they come to us, Are they willing to persist? You know, retention rates are, are low among this. This population is students, which is the only growth area. You know, because there's a demographic, cliff, as you know. Coming. So there's, you know, could be 400, 500,000 fewer college age people. So. You know, where do you grow? You grow in traditionally underserved or under attending populations. But they don't, they don't persist as, as often. And so it's financial like they, you know, for a typical white family from Hamburg, if you got to take the parent loan, you take the parent. Law. Right. And that's what fills the gap for a lot of families, and they pay it back later. African American families from the. From the east side. They're not taking the parent loan even if they qualify. You know, so there's. So that that causes a significant gap in persistence because there's a significant gap in the difference between the family's ability to pay when you include that parent loan. And their willingness to take on the loan. So that they don't go back and they leave with a balance. And then they're embarrassed to come back as they have a balance.  
Me: Sure.  
Them: So. So, like, that, that whole. The, the, the disconnect in those marketplaces between, you know, how do we get them from prospective students through college to a job. You know, a part of the pain. Point is, is. Persistence. Financially or academically. A part of the pain point is. Is is building the relationship with the prospective employers. In a way that adds value to the employer and the institution. Like they don't want to just hand out money.  
Me: Right.  
Them: You know, and that's often what we do. We go and say to them, give us money. To start this program. But there's got to be some end in it for them. You know, so, you know, like, like, what is the, what is the modern relationship look like between higher ed and industry partners? You know, what are the conditions under which that partnership is most likely to be successful? Because for a lot of our kids, 50% of kids in public schools across the country live in poverty. Like the. The poverty numbers are huge. It went through New York. You know, the largest school system is buffaloes. 30,000 students. And 85% of them live below the poverty line. So. For those kids, their world is very small. You know, they don't. If they. They don't see what. You or I see literally.  
Me: Yeah, that's possible. Right.  
Them: Right? If they can't. If they can't see it, they can dream it. So there's just a whole lot of. Connecting the previously disconnected. Whether it's industry institutions. Students and possibilities, students and institutions. Which is why what David Rust is doing with say yes is so important. If you know David and say yes. You know, we have a bunch of CES kids here. In hilbert. You know, but he is, you know, he's doing what he can with what he has, but there's just so, so much to do. But so those are, like, very, admittedly, very macro pinch points. But, you know, at some point, they're, you know, one of my hopes for. When I first started talking to Bill Nagio about all this stuff and whatever it was March of 22. March of 23, Whenever it was that I got brought into the conversation. One of my hopes always was. That there would be an opportunity to look at some of this in the macro. And, you know, we're doing it on the micro side. I mean, the tech, you know, the innovation fellows is great. I helped Jeffrey work on that over the summertime. You know, I understand that's like, you know, there's the tech touchdowns thing. I know that there's lots of really good ideas that are like roundup types of things, and you have to have that. I think that. It's smart to execute at the scale we think we can execute. And over time. That will bear fruit. I believe that without question. But the macro challenges need to be addressed. As well. And given the people that we have involved. In this. Whether it's, you know, the foundation board, whether it's, you know, other businesses like the business leader who you're talking to. Relationships with elected leaders to think about how we create grant programs and other things so that people can get educated. You know, you've got a bunch of 25 year olds out there who are underemployed. Who need to be reskilled so that they can take a different job. Higher ed. I mean, we have a unique position here at Hilbert. We have a very mature online program that we bring people into and provide a lot of online opportunities for students. We can do more. We have much greater capacity than what we're using now. But. You know, it's almost like, pick a spot.  
Me: Yeah. There's a lot of things to work on.  
Them: There's a lot of things to work on. But it's not unique to western New York.  
Me: Right.  
Them: You know, the question isn't, do you have pinch points between. You know, pinch points in your pipeline. You know, the question isn't, do you have those? The answer is, yeah, everybody has. Them. You know, the real question is what do we actually willing to do about it? Which is why I'm glad you're looking at it. Because somebody's got to be willing to chip away the ugliness around it. You know the old Michelangelo thing where they asked him about David? Remember the marble was like a distressed piece of marble nobody would touch. So they gave him a big commission and said, go ahead and do it. And they asked him, as you know, How did you do it? He's like, well, David was always in there. I just had to bring him out. And somebody in a position. Of influence or some group of people in a position of influence. Needs to kind of chip away the parochialism. And we're the most segregated area of the country by zip code. Racially. You know that. And this isn't a DEI thing. It's just an observation. That, as if we have the collective influence. To chip away some of the ugliness around and, you know, the parochialism, I guess, is the only thing that just kind of barriers to cooperation. We start to get someplace because it is about pathways that you use that word before. But we've got a. It's got to be. It's got to be so intentional.  
Me: Very much so.  
Them: Where we've been intentional. It's been productive, but oftentimes it's also been somewhat temporary.  
Me: Do you think the outcomes just don't surface?  
Them: I think it takes patience. I tell people all the time everything takes three to five years to get decent. So I just think there's not a lot of patience.  
Me: They want the quick win, right?  
Them: I want the quick win, and people don't stay in place very long. Like the average. You know, the average school superintendent or college president sticks around for, like, a couple years and they move on. So there's a lot of turnover in positions of influence. You know, your average CEO. I mean, Renee Jones is a bit of an anomaly in western New York. He's been in that role for a long time. But, you know, a lot of, a lot of people in positions of influence change over. You know, often enough where it's hard to. How do you get things started and. Finished.  
Me: Yeah. Create that through line. Right. Instead of having a threat.  
Them: Yeah, Yeah, I should say finished, finishes into what I want, but from, you know, for an idea to mature to the point where there's. There's finally a return on the investment of time and money. Because it's hard. Like, there's not a. There's not a. There's not a ton of patient money. In western new york. At least to my eye. And again. I don't. I don't. I don't move in those circles. So it's. It's admittedly an opinion that. Probably lacks a lot of information that would help. Help me maybe see it differently. But I can only attribute the lack of persistence to a lack of patient money. And the difficulty of chipping away some of the barriers that have been here for, you know, 65 years.  
Me: I want to touch on something you mentioned a few minutes ago. Right. You talked about connection with employers. Connection in general. You touched on mentorship. And one of the things that's always looming in the back of my mind, Is this idea of access, right? And folks on the east side get access to people in the business community in order to engage with them and learn with them. Can you talk to me a little bit about how you think about mentorship in higher ed as people are entering the workforce?  
Them: So. Yeah. Reminder of part of the conversation I think we had over there. Like kids from the east side. You can throw them on a bus and bring them here to see it. But in some ways, It's got to be a home game for them. Like if. If at least for some period of time early on. Accessing. Opportunity is a home game. A place where people who might not otherwise have access to it. It's got to be a place where they feel comfortable. You know, and not feel like a visitor.  
Me: Yeah. Outsider.  
Them: You know, I think that's. That's important. Like if you. If you brought a version of Radialventures to Hilbert College. You know, people would eat it up. Because it's here. Like. So we've got a ton of kids from city of Buffalo who are here. We have a very racially diverse student population. Population. Even though we're in the middle of Lilly White, HAMBURG, you know, 50% Pell Grant eligible students. You know, if Radialventures was here, you know, a couple days a week or a day a week or a couple days a month or whatever it was. Like, you know, you build a relationship with our. With our. Our faculty. People eat it up. Because it's here. It's a home game. You know. You know we're going to co locate two companies here in the next 45 days on our campus. You know, one's an AI company and one is a digital media company. You know, because there's got to be, like, it's our job in higher ed to create some critical mass. Nobody does that here at west new york. Silicon Valley was built based on co location agreements and spin off and all that. But proximity creates that. Lots of other things over there too. Way over, way oversimplifying it. But you know, but you know the extent to which you. You create opportunities on your campus. For students to have access to people and opportunities they would never otherwise have. Like, that's the. That's the new obligation of higher ed. It's not just handing out the same types of pieces of paper we've given out since Oxford was founded in 1620, or whatever the hell it was founded. Like the modern world wants something different from us.  
Me: I think that's a. That's exactly right. And I love the colocation strategy. And it reminds me of we. We had a freshman at ubn. We were just kind of talking to him and, you know, a bunch of 40 year olds came out of the room. We're like, we need that 18 year old in the office every day because the way he thinks about the world is vastly different than we do. And it's that type of energy and new thinking that you need colliding with the experienced, you know, 40 year old who's, you know, the billion dollar company. So I really, really like what you're talking to there. Can you double click on this concept of mentorship for me and how you that may be programmatically at the school or. Or not. Maybe it's a little more informal.  
Them: Ual. I think there's a little bit of both. I think it's an and proposition. I think that there is, and that's I'm shooting for with this colocation work that I'm doing. Where there's going to be some formal internship and mentorship that's going to happen as a result of the. Relationships that we. That we form. But then there's the collateral benefit of somebody, you know, they just happen to be sitting, you know, at adjacent tables in our little cafe here. And, you know, one overhears the other talking about something and they strike up a conversation, and then, you know, you get that. Collision. I think that's the word you use. So I think you have to be intentional about the structure. And the intended benefit of, you know, formal mentorship and internship. But then I think you give yourself the opportunity for all kinds of collateral benefit. Just by virtue of the collisions that happen, which is precisely the reason why, you know, Jamal and Mike Whistler have been somewhat judicious about who comes to the tech. You know, the M and T tower, you know, they, they could have had the FBI there, but that's not the kind of collision they want. You know, they want different collisions. So, you know, that type of a model that I'm hoping to find here, and I think generally speaking, you know, college campuses that are able to do that, hopefully they do it two years behind us so that we get all the enrollment gains instead of them. But, you know, I think that's the extent to which the business community is willing to join us. In. In our space. Proximity. Is a salve that that cure is not all, but at least some of the pinch points.  
Me: I mean. This very much so resonates, right? Like back from when Z80 was in the Buffalo News building. This is what we talk about today. We were all next to each other. And because of that, even though we were building separate companies, right, we were helping each other. Right. People that worked at my company would go to the next company and vice versa. We would share ideas and we all were rooting for one another because we were all in the same pen. And I. And I can't help but think about, you know, if the. If the buffalo zoo wants the rhinos to mate, they just put them in the same cage.  
Them: Correct.  
Me: Right.  
Them: Yes.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: Yeah, yeah, I think that's. That's right. And I think that's. That's been a. That's been a challenge for western New York, where, you know, there's a lot of people who have fought the same war from parallel foxholes. And we haven't exactly gotten in the same foxhole. And our. Our willingness. To get in that same foxhole for a while. Well, to a large degree, help us get where we need to go, and that includes elected leaders. Because there are. Statutory impediments. To or. Funding that could be unlocked differently and leverage differently. In western new york. If. If some. Some of the conversations we have are different. You know, grant programs and things like that.  
Me: Right. The. The foxhole analogy is really interesting. Right. Because again, just being in the, you know, early stage startup ecosystem for the past, you know, 15 years here. I've. I. It went from, you know, everybody at Z80 rallying into these little silos. Separate foxholes. Like we're all vying for the same thing, but it's. It. 's. There's not that focus, right? There's not that collaboration that. That you're touching on. I'm curious from your perspective on, you know, a university's willingness to get in the foxhole with another institution. Right? Because you even said something a few minutes ago. You're like, you know, I want the enrollment numbers, right? Maybe you could talk a little bit to that, that willingness of, like, you know, collaboration. Do you, do you have, you know, peer math minds at your level to talk with other institutional leaders to.  
Them: Cat. I. I talked to Father Maart, Niagara all the time. I talked to Basan Deem. Who's the president Trocare all the time. Having lunch with my counterpart over at Villa. So, like, for me. You know? I'm a system builder. Like, I. You know, our. Our superintendent association did nothing before I got there. And, you know, while I was in it, we were. We were the voice for. For public educators for the entire time that I was president, because we brought people together. In meaningful ways. So that we were collaborating differently, I created a mental health consortium. For everybody who provides mental health for school age. Children in Erie County. I did that with the county, and that still persists. We still. We had our first ever conference last month. So, like, I only know how to build systems with other people who are doing similar work. So, you know, there is, at least as far as I'm concerned. A willingness to try to find a way for if you take the. The Catholic, you know, affiliated, religiously affiliated colleges and universities here in western New York. You know, is there going to be a time where some of us get together and. And try to figure out how to not compete? For the same students and figure out a carve out. Some things, some areas of expertise that we're going to each focus on and you know, maybe, maybe support each other with some of the back office stuff that we do. Like we, we don't. We own a two year college? Hilbert does. So I'm. I'm the president at Hilbert College, but also I'm also the chief executive officer of Franciscan Services Incorporated. Franciscan Services Incorporated Owens Valley College, which is a two year career college with the emphasis in Ohio and West Virginia. So. So we are well, well into this idea of broadening our ecosystem in a way that brings benefit to both institutions. So, you know.  
Me: You. Mike, right? We need more folks like you, right?  
Them: What's that? My wife would beg to differ, but it's nice of you to say.  
Me: You know, different perspectives.  
Them: But, you know, so we're like, we're, you know, and we're like. I talked to industry partners. Every week I'm talking to people who are. From. From funeral homes. To cybersecurity firms. Just. Either. I go to that, and they come to me like we're open for business. We are looking to create value. You know, it's good for our business here at the college, but it's also good for western New York because better educated our people are wherever we want to find education, whether it's a one year program, a two year program, a four year program, a master's program. The more we unlock access to whatever the education experience used to look like after high school. You know, we get these young people off the couch or keep it from sitting on the couch in the first place. Get them engaged in the workforce.  
Me: That's right.  
Them: Because if we don't, you know, they're sitting home and.  
Me: And their parents basement.  
Them: The second I think this is right. The second largest cause of death. For white males between 25 and 40. Is unexplained.  
Me: Unexplained.  
Them: Jump. Overdoses, that's spare. Suicides that aren't suicides. I think that numbers, if it's not right, I think I'm directionally accurate. It's. So, you know, there's just a lot of. There's a lot happening in western New York, and it's happening in all cities. Like, again, we're not unique in that. What would make us unique. Is us having. Like a long enough. Alignment with enough surface area to make a difference.  
Me: I'm with you on that. I do want to be cognizant of time where we're 10.  
Them: Yeah. Sorry. Yeah, I'm good. I got a couple more minutes.  
Me: Okay, perfect. I. I have one more question for you, and it's really around, like, what? What are you responsible when it comes to, you know, measures or metrics that you are directly responsible for at the university?  
Them: There's nothing I'm not responsible for.  
Me: Like, you know, you have enrollment, right? You have. Is it, you know, job placement, that X number of graduates?  
Them: Actually.  
Me: Class have been placed.  
Them: I think about. I think about some of those. Kind of. Terminal numbers like graduation rates and job placement. Rates. And things like that, but I think a lot more about those kind of. Like the. The in process data. Like, you know, what is our retention rate? You know. How are we? How are we doing on students who have left for a semester and bringing them back? I. I also. I think a lot about the stuff that's harder to measure. Like when I'm in a class, you know, how engaged are the students? Like, do they feel like this is a place where they can belong? Which is frankly a workplace issue, too, for all the companies that you work with. Like, you know, there. There are belonging to you that. That every business needs to be cognizant of. Because if people don't feel like they belong, they're going to go to a place where they do belong.  
Me: That's right.  
Them: If they belong. So. So I. There's. I'm always mindful of what Einstein said about matter. Said. Einstein said that 90, 99% of all matter is vibration. So there's a. There's a feeling. Around. A place and around a thing. That. I think if Einstein's right, he probably is. That there. There's a lot that we can't see that's also happening. It also makes a huge difference. And you know it when you feel it.  
Me: Oh, yeah.  
Them: And. And I. And that's that. 's. That's a data point. That I, that I point that I look at, you know, or I, I, I try to sense as best as I can. And it comes from lots of what you can impact that in lots of ways, positively and negatively. So I. I think a lot about that as, like, evidence of. Of where we're headed. You know, in a. In a complex world, being able to quantify. Where you're at. Is. It's not always. You would think with algorithms, there's all kinds of things that we can apply a numerical value to. But sometimes that causes us to. Measure this stuff that's easier to measure than, you know, instead of trying to really get a sense for the stuff that might be difficult to measure. But more important.  
Me: Oh, yeah. I love this. There's a great book, I'm forgetting the name, but it talks about how, how, how data can be lied or can lie to you. Right? And you, you could expose the data to make you believe a certain thing, but ultimately that's not the truth of the matter. And I love the, the. Depth.  
Them: If the signal is at Nate Silver, the signal and the noise.  
Me: Something like that. I love Nate's stuff, but I've not read that. I'll. I'll have to dig it up for you.  
Them: Yeah. It's a good one. It's a good one, but. Yeah, send me the title of the book. I like all that stuff. I think it's super interesting.  
Me: Fantastic. I certainly will, Mike. Thank you so much. I'm going to keep you in the loop, right. As I continue to talk to folks. Right. We're going to validate this thing. We're going to start building product. I want to keep you involved, just up to date on stuff. If I need to reach out and we'd have another conversation a little more concrete. I'd greatly appreciate that as well.  
Them: Yeah. Yeah. Is that the best way to get me is my cell number? If you want to jot it down like that's the easiest way to do that. 71 6.  
Me: Yep.  
Them: Three, one, zero.  
Me: Three. Hundred one zero.  
Them: Eight, eight, five, one.  
Me: Okay? Great. Awesome. I'll put that in my contacts. And again, thank you so much for taking the time today. Your insights are invaluable. I think a lot of the things that you said have given me goosebumps on the back of my neck. Certainly help us facilitate bringing some solution to market.  
Them: Yeah, well, I'm happy to help. You know where to find me.  
Me: Awesome.  
Them: Thanks for the opportunity to talk to you. I appreciate thanks for what you're doing. You guys are doing the good work there, so thanks for what you're doing.  
Me: We're trying. We're trying. We'll talk soon. Thanks again.  
Them: All right. 