Meeting Title: Networking Research Interview (Scott fiege)
Date: Dec 4
Meeting participants: Sfiege

Transcript:
 
Me: I guess. Scott, can you hear me? Okay?  
Them: I can't hold on. I don't know why I went to auto. Mutant camera. That's weird. Having issues.  
Me: No problem.  
Them: How are you?  
Me: I'm doing good. How are you?  
Them: Good. My wife's. I'm working from home today. I don't know if you could hear a blow dryer if you do, because she's in an apathy over there. I can move rooms. Can you hear all right?  
Me: Nope. I'm good. I'm good. Don't even hear.  
Them: All right.  
Me: It.  
Them: Cool.  
Me: Well, first off, thank you for taking the time to chat with me today. I really appreciate it. I know I don't have much to offer you in return, but if you ever need thing, I'm here for you.  
Them: Yeah. No worries. Yeah. I generally like these conversations, and I know it's been an interesting couple of years in this space.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: So I'm happy to provide some feedback to you. And help you out.  
Me: Like, 30 second pitch here about this kind of path that I've been on, right? I spent like 25 years climbing the corporate ladder. Spent like the last 10 or so years, like the VP of product level at a couple different health tech organizations. Lost my job. Spent a year and a half trying to find work. Applied to nearly 2,000 jobs over that time. Did not get a single offer. Until I posted this desperation plea on LinkedIn that got picked up by Business Insider and whatever else. And then the guys here at Radialventures, which is a venture studio that spun out of the 43 North foundation that does the business plan competition here every year,  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: They said, hey, we have something that we think you could work on. And ironically, it's an idea for a regional professional network that kind of does what LinkedIn does but doesn't suck. Right. And tries to build meaningful connections with people, as opposed to kind of the facades and the fakeness that you see in the performative stuff that you see on LinkedIn. And there's just all these different parts of this where in this past year and a half, I've talked with so many people who are in similar situations. Even like students who are trying to apply for jobs. And everyone seems to be just putting out resumes into a void and crossing their fingers. And it feels like no jobs happen unless you know someone anymore. And I guess I'm just trying to talk to you, knowing that you're in this space. Like open ended question for you. What have you been seeing that's changed, especially over the past few years? And kind of what concerns do you have about it? I'll just kind of give you the floor, if you don't mind. Just give me what the thoughts are.  
Them: So on the reverse end. I about 15 to 20 jobs as a recruiter open right now.  
Me: Okay?  
Them: Maybe half of them are actually fillable. The other half are like. I'm literally looking for something that doesn't exist anymore because either people don't reply back or people don't have a robust enough profile on LinkedIn to stand out or. People just don't want to move to Buffalo, so I'm seeing a lot of that. But then on the candidate end, I don't get a ton of eager candidates. There, ready to go chomping at the bit like you were for that past year and a half. It's a lot of. Dude, I'm all set. Like, I don't. I'm. They're tree hugging, you know, or job hugging right now. You know, they, they. They get that this world is a little uncertain. And the last thing they really want to do unless they know their company is, like, going out of business or folding or whatever. There's not a lot of people like, so I'm seeing it's painful on the other end. I'm not actually getting a ton of applications.  
Me: Really?  
Them: Yeah, I like I sponsored the crap. Actually, I just got yelled at because I didn't even realize I left on the sponsorship part on indeed. I had it open for over a month. It was a construction project manager in la. It's specialty inside quality. The only candidates I was getting was outside the market. It was pretty clear in the job description. You have to already be there. They're not paying for relocation.  
Me: Okay?  
Them: The only candidates I'm getting are non US citizens or people that. Are career road warriors in that kind of field. And my kid, my clients, just not looking for that. And it's just mind boggling to me. I'm like, this is freaking la. It's the third second biggest, largest city in North America. Like, come on, you know, so. But I hear a lot of what you're saying. I actually was just on a know I work with the bills on the side. My friend that got me that job. His wife is in recruiting. She's like, scott, I can't find a job, period. She goes, much less remote. But, like, in Buffalo, like, it just doesn't exist. Like, even outside, like, I we're considering moving. She's like, I'm not even seeing recruiter. Roles anymore. Like, it's.  
Me: Right. Yeah.  
Them: And she was making way more than I was. So it's. Anyway, so she's. She's feeling a lot of, like, weird doubt. So I. I don't know. I've been hearing a lot of it. Like, I definitely appreciate having a job, but, like, personally, like, it's. I don't get that gratification that I used to have in this field, you know? So it's. I. I do miss. Prior to Covid. Those years of networking. And maybe I, I, I don't know how you and I, I do remember. I think Steve Kimmel worked.  
Me: Steve tomorrow. Yeah, yeah.  
Them: Just. He was a good dude. I knew him. I reached out to you like that. Little art of doing business was always kind of a thing. And I don't even have, like, relatives reaching back out to me or, like, my past customers kind of are shady. It's just strange. So I'm. I'm. Definitely curious what, you know, you guys are working on, because I, I, I think everybody does want a better world, you know, like, socially and, and.  
Me: Yeah. I've been on a LinkedIn posting spree lately, and I just posted this thing this morning that was like, are we all just like frogs in the pot of boiling water that it's just. It's slowly getting warmer and warmer and warmer and like, we know we should jump out, but we're just we're too scared of what's outside the pot.  
Them: You're right. I don't know. Yeah.  
Me: It's crazy. And I do feel like what we're working on here, at least with our attempt to kind of get into this space and maybe bring people together in a meaningful way, we have some, like, low hanging fruit where I think we can start by connecting, like, students with, with, with, with mentors as part of, like, the mentorship programs from some companies that. That have. And then in the same vein, start to build some type of way of validating skills of these people so that we're getting past just the resume and we can actually give, like, proof of projects they built and, like, kind of like give everybody a portfolio. Kind of, you know, as opposed to just like a resume. And, like, the more we talk about this, like, this has legs, if we did it the right way. But we don't want to just go build it. We want to try to talk to as many people we can to try to figure out, you know, what are these pain points people are feeling like. So I think, like, my question for you would then be, like, the candidates that you're kind of getting, are you finding it, like, trustworthy that, like, when you get a resume that, like, there's skills and things like that are matching what they're putting on their resume? Or is it all just, like, AI Slop and you're like, oh, wow, your resume looks exactly just like what the job description is looking for. I mean, are you seeing that as you're screening people?  
Them: Y. Eah. Yeah. I'm think about my, like, successful placements that we've had recently. So generally I'm finding people like on LinkedIn. For the most part. I, I actually don't. I, I don't remember the last time I filled a job using a job board, for example, unless it was, like, on LinkedIn. Right? And I actually choose a selection on LinkedIn that I don't request a resume. You can apply using your profile. I personally really enjoy that because it's a landing page. You should be advertising yourself who you are and what you're all about. But. So I'm going back to some placement that we just had.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: I don't pick an art resumes like I just verify. Yeah. Do they have a bachelor's degree if I need it? Cool. Do they have X, Y and Z? Sure. And generally looking for just most of my. Most of my customers. Want strong communication skills. Eager people. And basically like, that kind of it factor. I have one really picky customer right now. She was a slam dunk. Like she had everything. You know what I mean? So it it for me. My ETS system doesn't screen applicants. There's no, like, AI, like grading system to it. I've. I've turned that off. Years ago, I realized that it doesn't work. I think major banks do that.  
Me: Okay?  
Them: They use something called. What is it? You might have already heard. It's called Eightfold.  
Me: I haven't heard of that one. Yet.  
Them: They fold it AI. That's really. A lot of these top corporations are using this AI function. Most of the internal recruiting teams hate it. Like it just doesn't work. The grading doesn't work. It's unique and like it grades people really, really old school. I treat recruiting and staffing like NFL free agency. I can't just pick up a Josh Allen off the street.  
Me: Right.  
Them: James Winston might be available. He might be the best quarterback out there. Right, so that's who I got to go with. Some reason companies think they could just get Josh Allen. Yeah, it's different. We're not under. He's Josh Allen's owner, 10 year contract. Everybody else is not, you know, but. Same time people are, if they're happy in a role, they're happy. They're not going to leave, you know, so. Yeah, but I, I personally, I don't use a lot of AI filters or I haven't even in the past few years that it's been existed.  
Me: Yeah. Right.  
Them: But I do know major corporations do, so.  
Me: Those jobs that you said you were having a hard time filling, are those, like, hyper specific, where they're looking for just a certain skill set that is just so unique that it's just really hard to find that skill set?  
Them: Yeah, like, I'll give you an example. I have a big construction company in town. They only want people from the top construction companies. And they only want those people if they've been like, great tenured employees. Because what you see is in construction, The guys that kind of stink, they bounce jobs a lot, right? I hate to say it that way, because I. I don't think it's the same in professional services, but it might be true in construction.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: So I. That job has been open for almost a year. I have a job with Benderson, for example, for leasing and property managers.  
Me: Okay?  
Them: And what I'm seeing in there is they're like, well, I'm already a leasing guy that brushes that. It may be they make 2,300k. Why are they going to go somewhere else? Start all out, over, all over again. But she doesn't want anybody unemployed. Which you don't find anybody unemployed in it anyway. So you got to then find somebody to move, and then you got to have this unique skill set. It's got to be like a. I'm finding a diamond in her rough, so I spend very little time working on it.  
Me: Right. Yeah.  
Them: And then a lot of them are, like, just tough engineering jobs that just. I don't know, electrical engineers with certain. There's PLCs, or maybe there's some type of automation, or maybe there's HMIs, whatever. They just. They're. I don't know. You might. My biggest challenge is I don't think a lot of people build up their LinkedIn. Pages like you and I would do. I. I think a lot of people just kind of set it and forget it with a job title and where they're at, and that's it, you know, so.  
Me: Yeah, it's like, it's like certain types of professionals are going to spend a lot of time cured in their LinkedIn, where, like, if you're an electrical engineer at Kobe and you've been there for the past 15 years, like, why would you spend time working on your LinkedIn resume to make sure it has all your. All your skills on it, right? Especially if you're. If you're not looking. So that person that you might want to find from Kobe, that might have all that exact skills and experience that you're looking for, might be the perfect guy, but you don't, don't even. Know how to find them, right?  
Them: Well, that's what I so like, dad. Electrical engineering job I I'm on right now. I'm looking, I'm if I find a job title of electrical engineer at a relatable company, I'm still reaching out to them anyway, and half the time they're like, dude, I don't I'm electrical engineer, but I don't have those skill sets. Sorry. And it's like, well, at least you got back to me. I appreciate that. So, yeah, it's kind of madness.  
Me: Right. Yeah.  
Them: I don't know. I, I wish I, I. You should talk to some recruiting firms that are, like, killing it right now. There might be a couple. I don't know.  
Me: Okay?  
Them: I know. Like the guys at A car do. Well, because they got name brand in Buffalo. They work on mob jobs. And people know that, so.  
Me: Is that. Is that. Is that the same, like as talent rise?  
Them: Yeah, yeah, yeah.  
Me: Okay? All right. Yeah, I know. Who. Who's it? I. I know. Over there.  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: Sarah. Sarah Garcia, I think I. I was. I met her one time, so I reached out to her already. I haven't heard back yet.  
Them: Yeah. Rise does more. Really unique executive searching. Akara does like the attempt to hire type stuff or direct usually jobs 100k or less, you know, so the talent rise, I think is more like 150 to 250 kind of pay ranges, you know.  
Me: Okay? Got. Okay? Okay? Okay? Yeah, I think. I think that's where. That's where she was focused.  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: Because she was trying to place me in a job that I didn't get, sadly.  
Them: Oh, man.  
Me: Yeah. Okay. All right, well, that. That. That definitely helps. Like, I don't. I don't want to take more your time than I already have. Like, if. I'm very thankful for this, first off.  
Them: Oh, yeah. Whatever you need. I'm good. I. I got time until 11:30, so.  
Me: Oh, okay. All right, Cool. Then if you don't mind, I'm going to ask you a few more questions, so.  
Them: Sure.  
Me: I'm trying to think how this would apply to. Apply to you, knowing that you're recruiting for jobs, but not the direct hiring manager. I guess, like as you're talking with hire.  
Them: Well, that's actually so, like, a lot of jobs I work on are actually at advanced 2000. I don't know if you know too much about us, but.  
Me: I. You know, I don't like. I, I. I've heard the name a lot. Like, I know of the company, but I'm not familiar with them.  
Them: So Advanced 2000 does two different things, really. IT services for companies locally. Or nationwide, actually. But like help desk or whatever it is. Tell. I got phone deals. I got. There's a lot of different avenues. I could sell a server to somebody, whatever, you know. But generally, like, where you make money is the reoccurring cost and it. Help desk or just support. Right. The other factor is private cloud. So we have like four data centers and we spin off, we have our own private cloud where if you don't want to use AWS or Azure, people can buy into our cloud. And it's really popular in aec, which is architecture, engineering, construction.  
Me: Okay, okay, okay. Okay?  
Them: We've built high performance computers virtually so people don't need a three thousand dollar laptop to spin revit. So that's, that's their. So I do the Internal recording for advanced 2000 and it's funny like a 3 will bill advanced 2000 to build this business. So it's kind of. Yeah. So my CEO is just pushing money along, but it that's how we're going to grow. I mean, he would be paying a recruiting for him anyway, you know, so.  
Me: Yeah. What types of, what types of roles would you are would you guys be hiring for?  
Them: Yeah. I've been. I've been feeling, like, sales jobs, network engineering jobs, cloud solution architects. We have another job that's really unique called like a BIM manager. BIM is. It's a popular term in aec. It's like an architect that handles the virtualization and design and technology. Right. They're not the IT guy, but they know the technology involved. To spin up, revit in all these 3D softwares, you know what I mean? So that job. Yeah. So I do work a lot internally with those hiring managers because I'm in the same building as them, you know, I mean, and I know exactly what we need is an intern. And I. I've also sat internally at Moog and Ultra as an internal recruiter or, you know, I'M face to face with these hiring managers. You know, we're looking at things live together, you know, so.  
Me: Yeah. Yeah. And what are some of, like, the, like, the struggles that you. That, like, you would like that they would pare it back in terms of, like, what's frustrating about finding the talent for them is it just, like, they have a very specific need and they can't find the right person to match. To match the skill set that they're looking for.  
Them: So I. I think sometimes the. The best hiring managers I have come with an open mind and appreciation of the art of recruiting. Like, what is it like out there? What are you seeing? Okay, cool. The best candidate possible. Go find them. Right? I think the ones that have an unrealistic view is they just think all these people exist readily available. And if you can't get through to them that I stink as a recruiter, and it's like, dude, I've tried everything I could. I could find your cell phone number, your email. I could probably find every email or phone number you've ever had through the tools I have. I'm going to find a way to. If it's a $25,000 to $40,000 placement fee, I'm going to do whatever it takes. You know what I mean? Like, I hate to be annoying like that, but at the other end, generally somebody's pretty receptive if it's a good new job. You know, it's not like I'm pitching them a sale. I'm picturing them a new career, you know, so those hiring managers are tough. I get it. Sometimes. Like at Moog, some of our jobs were really hard to fill because the top aerospace engineers are not in Buffalo, New York, they're. In a lot of cooler cities. You know, I'm not knocking Buffalo, but we're just not an aerospace town like California and Florida and the Carolinas are Texas, you know, it's Boulder, Colorado, like, that's a hotbed, right?  
Me: Right. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Yeah.  
Them: People want to move to Buffalo, really, so. But they need people physically at the sites because it's. It's not a remote role. Technically, although I think most roles can be remote.  
Me: Right. Yeah. I, I I spoke with a guy yesterday who sounded a lot like me. In terms of he's been unemployed for a year and a half, 2,000 jobs.  
Them: Wow.  
Me: Like applications. He has been like. And I had kind of said, oh, well, this thing we're working on is about networking and making connections. Because that seems like a lot. That's how a lot of these types of jobs are filled nowadays because of just all the AI slop that's out there. And he had said that, like, he networks like crazy. He's an every single network event you could think of. And, and his, like, even, even that wasn't helping him. And he asked me an interesting question that I kind of want your perspective on. He goes, who do you know? Who do you know that's hiring? And. Come to think of it, I don't know anyone who's hiring. And he's like, there are no jobs here. And, like, anyway, it was dramatic, and you could tell he's, you know, upset and passionate and emotional about the whole situation. But, like, from your perspective, like, are there a lot of jobs that you're seeing or. Or is it like. No, there's, you know, there's slim pickings right now, and it's you know, maybe underreported in terms of, like, what the job availability is right now.  
Them: I was just thinking that yesterday, walking around with my dog, I'm like, are we in a recession? And they just don't want to call it that because people will hit the panic button, create more bad problems that. You know, I remember 2008, and that's when I, you know, that that was a horrible time for business in general. And I remember some guy presenting. He goes, dude, if you're thinking about, like, the cost of buying a 30 pack of beer and you're having a trouble getting around the cost of that, maybe we're in a recession. And then next thing you know, we're in a recession. That was 2008. I remember saying that. And it's like, I remember talking to one of my friends, and he's like, dude, I. I can't even afford beer right now. Like, groceries. I'm like, yeah. So, going back to your question. This is kind of weird. I do know this about companies. It's kind of advertisement for them to post jobs. It's, you know, so that's kind of shitty. The second part is a lot of. So let me go back to Moog. 50 to 60% of the jobs I filled were with internal candidates. I still had to post those jobs externally. Even if I knew. Even if I knew I was going to be hiring internally for this, because, like, it just happens. The hiring manager is like, I know who I want for this job. But legality wise, because of CCP rules which is set back into 2008 era, Publicly traded companies have to post every job regardless. If they're going to fill it internally or if they already know the candidate. So when I posted a job for mog, here's a pain point. I knew the guy I was going to hire because we already talked to him. It already happened. The guy's already there. He already knows mo culture. Great. Still have to post a job for minimum, I think, like three or five days. I forget what the minimum is.  
Me: Okay?  
Them: I'd get 150 applications for it. It's pretty tough for me to call every single one of these people. I would look through personally to see if I knew anybody. Just to call them up and be like, hey, look, here's a situation, you know? But I. I can't send that out, you know, Blast email. Hey, this job was only for an internal candidate because it would piss a lot of people off. So you have to do the standard from whatever legal says to say, hi, thanks for applying. At this time, your resume's not in consideration. Please consider us for future reference. And then. So as a recruiter at Moog, when I actually wanted to hire somebody, externally. I would call that person up sometimes because I would source our database and we were like, screw you guys. I've applied 15 times. That Mogi. I've never heard back.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: Then I have to share that story over and over again.  
Me: Right.  
Them: And it's really tough. So that's a huge pain point right now. That's. You think about all those jobs at Mogada. I didn't feel externally. Imagine all that with M and T.  
Me: Yeah. Well.  
Them: Big companies. Just luckily we're not a big corporate traded town, you know, but like that, that exists?  
Me: Yeah. What you just said feels like me and me, with me and M and T. Like, I've applied to M and T. Like, five or six different times and they won't reply to me for months. And all of a sudden, two months later, I'll get a thanks, but no thanks. Seam. I applied that job. 2. Two months ago to the point where if they called me now, I'd be like, screw you guys. Right? Like, you've. You've disrespected me, like, considerably over the past, like, year for the. The various things I've applied to. That's really interesting.  
Them: Yeah, yeah. Yeah. All right, you too. Bye. 