Meeting Title: Networking Research Interview (William Fullerton)
Date: Dec 5
Meeting participants: Williamfullerton1 0

Transcript:
 
Me: See. I'll be right back. Give me 10 seconds.  
Them: Okay?  
Me: All right. I'm back, and I think this is working finally. So I'm going to give it. If not, I will try to take some quick notes myself with paper as a backup. But anyway, thanks so much for taking the time to talk with me today. I really appreciate it. I'll try not to take up too much of your time here. I'll try to keep this, like, 15, 20 minutes at most. But the situation that we find ourselves in here at Radialventures is that we're trying to get just some feedback from a variety of different Personas. Students being one of those, because we have a suspicion and I guess, hypothesis that we're trying to test that is kind of giving us this feedback that.  
Them: Terrific.  
Me: The way that students are kind of entering the job market and that they're struggling and really don't know kind of where to start. And I guess I want to just kind of ask you some questions, if you don't mind, around what you've been doing, where you're at in school and. At what point do you see yourself starting to look for internships and build professional relationships and try to apply for jobs? At what stage are you in that process and what kind of results have you seen so far? I think if we can just kind of maybe start there in freestyle and we can kind of go from there.  
Them: Yeah, of course. So I actually graduate one week today. I'm an early semester grad, so I did all the math and I figured I came in with zero credits, but I can still graduate a semester early.  
Me: Awesome. Congratulations.  
Them: Thank you. I personally started looking for internship my freshman year. And I didn't find anything until the summer, like this summer with a tech startup called Cash AI. And I'm not head of at Routine Relations there, and I love those guys. I'm really loving startups. And I have found it to be incredibly difficult for myself to make any headway in corporate. But I have found that I really have a home in startups and that that culture appreciates the talents I bring. More than corporate, I should suppose. I believe that's me being a little bit of an outlier here. But what I found is. Even if you do everything right that your school tells you to do everything right that the career fair recruiters tell you to do, you can still get left behind by a lot of people. I'm coming off of creating my university's first hackathon, and we managed to bring five regional universities, and we have big names like cnu, if you know of them. We brought a team down from there, and we paired up with four small businesses, and we actually built AI solutions for real challenges with the small business we're facing. And two of those solutions are actually being implemented right now, which I'm really proud of, mostly because one of them is my friend's team. But also I felt that that would give me some sort of edge when attempting to go into corporate, saying, look, I took the initiative, I fell a need, I created a solution, I filled it. And what I faced is what I can really describe as recruiter apathy. Whenever I tell them about some of those accomplishments I've made, that I'm undefeated at hackathons, when I created a hackathon that I'm in clubs and leadership roles at universities, they just almost don't care. And I feel as though there's a lot of fake people going out for roles now as well as I've begun to talk to some more recruiters as friend, if that makes sense. So not recruiters, but I'm actively trying to get a job from just people who are in the recruiting field and they're telling me that they're having just as much trouble as we are. Because there's these AI accounts that'll go and apply to Jobs for some reason, or there's these people that get through the ATF software. But just read off a chatgpt in the interview and they can tell. And that's one of the things that kind of hurts me almost is you have all these great talents. Like, I have so many friends who can't get entry level jobs either outside of startups or even in startups. Mostly because these ATF software are just blocking them out. And people at the HES softwares are letting in are honestly subpar candidates. And I've talked to some big corporate people and they also believe that they're losing 88% at most of their qualified candidates for these systems. But they're not getting rid of them for some reason. And I believe that there's two major issues, in my opinion, as a student trying to find entry level roles. Corporations refuse to let go of the applicant tracking systems that they've been using for some reason, even though their senior leadership finds them to be less than efficient at creating and feeling roles. As well as there's a lot of people right now who. Are black. Or better terminology. Giving up. I'm personally on the edge of giving up right now. But I keep trying and I keep plugging away, so I feel as though the really qualified people are getting left behind. In favor of people who are just scam artists. And I feel like we need to fill that role and fill that gap somewhere. So I don't think it's any one person's fault. It's definitely not recruiter's fault. It's definitely not these people who are trying and plugging away at doing their best to get roles. It's not even the Nepo baby fault. It's really tough right now, and there's so few roles, and we automated everything, and there's almost too many people applying to roles, if that makes sense. I applied to a local internship last summer.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: And they told me all their other roles had 10, 20 candidates, like normal. But the analysts role that I was going for had almost 250. And I was laughing because they weren't really comprehending. And I had to explain to them in the interview, yeah, it's really hard to get into the analyst role. But you're going to have everybody coming to you because they just look up analysts role. They're like, really? I said, yeah. I kind of felt bad for them because this was a small company that likes to read everybody's resumes, and I kind of felt overwhelmed.  
Me: Was this a local? An in person local internship?  
Them: Yes.  
Me: Okay, well, that's a lot of applicants for a local position. Like, that's crazy.  
Them: Yeah, and this isn't even a well known organization either. And they had tip all the way out in Oregon. Apply.  
Me: Wow. Really? Huh? That's that.  
Them: Yeah, it was crazy.  
Me: 's so like, let me just go back to your so your currently like working with a team and this startup space. But you also mentioned that you were, you know, Giving up or something. So, like, are you actively looking for other work because of, like, that one maybe not having the right, like, compensation that you would need or, like, can you just be a little more specific with kind of what your current situation is and if you're actively looking for work or not in corporate.  
Them: Yeah, definitely. I'm actively looking for work because the tech startup I'm at right now can't pay anybody. So it's not just me. We don't have enough money to pay anyone who works there right now. So that's why I'm looking for work, because I kind of need a paying job when I graduate.  
Me: Okay? Makes complete sense. Totally get that. I just wanted to make sure I understood. So, in terms of. In terms of like, what? What? Like, do you have any, like, rough numbers of, like, how, like, roughly how long you've been looking for, how many places you think you've applied to? Do you have any, like, rough ideas? Of what that looks like.  
Them: Yeah. Yeah. So for entry level positions, I've been applying to those for about. I think it's December now, about seven months. I've been applying to the entry level roles. And I've applied to roughly. 150 of those. And of those, maybe five have reached out for an interview. But over the whole course of my collegiate career here. I've applied to over 1000 open positions, mostly for internships, and gotten less than 100 interviews.  
Me: Wow. Okay? Yeah. I think every time I hear it, I'm surprised. Although it's. It's. It's what I hear every time. So, like, what you're telling me is unique by any stretch of the imagination, but it's just like I'm waiting to talk to someone who's had a different experience, but it's, I think, unfortunately, I think that's, that's the very common response. Have you done much in the work in, like, trying to, like, network and meet people and like, I guess what is, what is networking look like for you, as you kind of been in this, in the stage of your career.  
Them: Yeah. Definitely. So I've networked all over the place with everybody. I have over 2,100 LinkedIn connections. Actually, I'm kind of proud of that. So I have people all over the place. I started with just the recruiters at career fairs. Then I started meeting other people at Hackathons. The recruiters that come to Hackathons. Friends of family, friends, all of that. So pretty much any and everywhere you could dig somebody up. I've been talking to them. And fascinating thing to me is the people who are in analytics or analyst adjacent roles love everything I've done and so that they wish they could bring me on, but they just can't for budget reasons. And whenever I talk to a recruiter, it's almost a crapshoot where half of them love everything I did, and half of them are just apathetic.  
Me: Yeah, right. Oh, man. It's just. It's. So disappointing to hear that. But again, like, it definitely checks out. I think that if you could, like, if there's. What, what's your. Let me just go back to my, to my question here. So, like, where are you looking for opportunities? Are you looking at just all, all the job boards? Is that pretty much how you're, like, looking for, looking for open opportunities and, and just applying? And are you, like, custom tailoring your resume? For the app, for the. For the applications right now. Like, what's. What does that process look. Look like for you right now?  
Them: Yeah. So usually I find two golden roles a day, and I tailor a new resume every time for those. Otherwise, I have 10 to 20 generic roles that I have been applying to every day.  
Me: Okay?  
Them: But in all honesty, I'm steering away from that now. Because I'm relearning the lessons I did with internships. Math. Applying really only takes a toll on your mental health. It doesn't help you find a role.  
Me: Yeah. Okay. And then. What would. What would like, and this is on my question list, but I'm not even sure what I, what this means right now. But, like, what would. What would help look like to you right now? Like, if someone could come in and say, all right, I have. I have something that could really help you. Is it. Is it making those connections? Is it getting past the ATS systems? Is it, you know, better quality opportunities? I feel like the. The thing that would help is to have more jobs exist in the first place, which we can't help there. But, like, is there anything that comes to mind when I say that? I know that's kind of open ended, but is there anything that you can think of that would be a help to you right now that you think is a part of the broken system that's fixable but doesn't really have a solution right now?  
Them: Most definitely. So like you said, more jobs is the solution, but that's not going to happen. So the easiest thing I would say is definitely the biggest help to me would be I can make sure your resume gets past the ATS or here, the hiring manager for this role that you would be a good fit for. So pretty much getting around the applicant tracking systems, that's the biggest help I could get. Because getting in front of a human is so difficult now, and I don't understand why it is. I feel like that should be a first step. We've kind of taken human beings out of the recruiting process. I feel that's why so many people are seeing a lot of the problems that they are. Yeah. Help for me would definitely be getting around the ATS and talking straight to a hiring manager or just a recruiter.  
Me: Okay. And then are you. Are you looking at, like, local and. And remote jobs, or are you looking to potentially relocate as an option, what your landscape looked like? There.  
Them: Yeah. So I started only looking at local because of internships. Then I branched out to local and remote, probably back in February. And now I'm looking at all three. Local, remote, or relocation. Granted, the relocation. There's some places that I would favor more than others, but that's, like, really niche. Yeah, I'm looking at everything right now.  
Me: Okay? Okay? And then last question that I have here is like, are you currently, do you use WhatsApp for messaging by any chance?  
Them: And no, I do not.  
Me: Okay? So we're. We're actually looking at building out a platform that connects people, and we're trying to figure out a way to do group messaging across different carriers. And it's like if you're trying to do a group message between an Android user and an iPhone user, it's a nightmare. Unless there's some type of, like, app, like WhatsApp involved. So that's why. I. I asked, but. Okay. Yeah, I mean.  
Them: Okay? I primarily use LinkedIn messaging and Discord. Honestly, Discord is pretty solid too.  
Me: Okay? Okay. Yeah, I've heard more and more. More and more people are using that as well. I know we're at 15 minutes here. I, I, I've, I've gotten through all of my questions. I, I did want to cut open it up for you, you know, just. I was actually a judge at the Hackathon a few weeks ago, and I'm, I'm curious which, what was what was your team there?  
Them: Which hackathon were you at?  
Me: The. The ub, like, hack. The Monopoly themed one at ub. Was that the one you were talking about, or was it a different one?  
Them: Oh, no, no, I'm at rmu.  
Me: Oh, you're an rnu. Oh, okay. I went, oh, you know what? I sent out a mass email to all the students at ub, and I just kind of assumed that all the student interviews that I've been doing were, were, were, were, were local. So I guess I just made that assumption incorrectly. So I apologize for that, but interesting.  
Them: Yeah. Did you say uv is in virginia or ud is in delaware?  
Me: Ub is in buffalo because I'm in. I'm. I'm. I'm in buffalo.  
Them: Buffalo. Got it.  
Me: That's why I was. I made a. I made an incorrect assumption, so apologies.  
Them: Got. Because I was going. I'm like, wait, were you at. Aih. Were you at Steelhacks? Wait, where were you?  
Me: Perfect. Okay. Well, that. That has definitely been very helpful for me. Thank you so much for your time today. This is like, I, again, like, getting people to talk to me has been a challenge. And, you know, we really want to kind of, you know, solve some things with this broken system. But that is definitely super helpful to kind of reaffirm. Some of my thoughts that I had already. And again, thank you for your time. It was really great talking to you.  
Them: Yeah, of course. And thank you again for talking to me. I mean, I always love connecting with people. More on phone calls than messages. I really do believe we need to get back to being more human and talking to people. And thank you so much for listening to us and trying to help us out as students. I really do appreciate it.  
Me: Yeah, absolutely. I definitely, really appreciate it. And we have a new connection, so I definitely appreciate that.  
Them: Of course. All right. You have a great holiday season, sir.  
Me: You as well. Take care. Bye. 