Meeting Title: Jonathan Gorczyca - Hadar: GG
Date: Dec 9
Meeting participants: Hadar Borden

Transcript:
 
Them: Hi.  
Me: Hey, hadar.  
Them: Good you can hear me.  
Me: I can hear you. It worked the first time.  
Them: I know I'm not super great and with teams, but this is great. Have you been?  
Me: I've been. Well, cold, but I'm doing good.  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: We have a lot in motion here at Radial. And, yeah, I guess we're closing in on the end of the year.  
Them: Pretty exciting, actually. Just sent off a venture to Mike last night to introduce them.  
Me: Okay?  
Them: See where it goes.  
Me: This is exciting. We appreciate any intros and connections that you have for us.  
Them: Yeah, absolutely. So what are you cooking?  
Me: Well, I have a lot of questions right.  
Them: Okay?  
Me: We're doing market discovery, trying to talk to folks, I will say, or maybe lead the witness a little bit. It's kind of mentor deck related. There's been a lot of interest in the community for a tool like this that involves mentorship. I think when you mentioned it to me. Wherever we were in Larkinville right after the aileron event. And so there's been even more people kind of reaching out. And so we're talking to folks and generally trying to understand the pain points and existing tools and things like that. So I have, like, a bunch of questions.  
Them: Oh, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah.  
Me: From you that you might be able to help answer.  
Them: Yeah. I just have a hard stop like 2:59. Because I have to jump on the three o'clock too.  
Me: Yeah, no problem at all.  
Them: Okay?  
Me: I appreciate it. So. Yeah, tell me. Walk me through how you currently track student engagement, mentorship outcomes, stuff like that.  
Them: Sure. So for our ventures, we have, we have venture coaches that meet up with students and then they will complete, like, meeting recap. With their team and it's logged in. We kind of treat it as like, think about your primary care physician as your Venture coach. They're kind of like your first go to place, and then they'll make referrals out to other people. The hope is that the student keeps in touch with the Venture. Coach, right? That primary care and keeps them updated. And then we will offer ideas like go meet with the Elaw clinic or we have a list of experts in residence. So I don't have mentor deck, but we are using. We've built an air table kind of gallery of experts. And each expert has a bio. And then we ask them to provide either their bookings, lane, calendly, link, whatever they prefer. The negative side to this. It works. Except that we don't know how many meetings they actually have. Right, like how many students have reached out, how many connections? We've tried to survey the experts in residence and they don't respond. We've even creatively given a bitly link to each expert and then creatively come up with a score based on the number of hits or views that they have seeing. Like if they got 50 views, maybe that amounted to five meetings. Right. But nothing good data. So. And, you know, there's tools like HubSpot, and when we have something called Startup Tree that Blackstone Corporation gave us to use and we've adopted for managing our competitions, we haven't utilized the mentor module because the friction is onboarding somebody. To that platform, and then that platform doesn't always doesn't play nice. And adds more Borden on us to like manage it. I think the piece that I like about Airtable is that it is we've created a form. I have a meeting with an alum or a friend of the university. They're interested, I send them the link and kind of like a how to guide and they're off to the races. They fill out the form, we activate it. The only negative is that we don't know how many meetings they've had. Right now. We're going through the process of reaching out to each of the experts in residence and just saying we're end of the fall semester. Do you want to re up for the spring? Are there any issues? Anything you want to tell us that you've heard from our ventures, right? So I'll pause there.  
Me: That's fantastic. Super helpful. So understand that it's kind of hard. Know maybe quantify number of sessions. And you follow up surveys, things like that. Who are the Venture coaches or eirs? Are they students? Are they professionals?  
Them: So our venture coaches, our current graduate students or undergraduate students that have started a business themselves and they go through a training program, our experts in residence, our friends of the university alumni that have either started businesses or are experts in marketing or finance or accounting. And I'm happy to drop the link so that you can see who these folks are.  
Me: Yeah, that would be incredible.  
Them: Some of them you might. You might know. Yeah.  
Me: Sure. That's great. So in regards to this, and maybe this is like a little bit one off, but you've always helped us identify top talent. And I'm how you think about identifying these breakout stars and maybe what some of the indicators you look for either kind of qualitative stuff or otherwise to identify those folks.  
Them: That's a really good. I think number one is follow through. Right. So if I tell them, hey, there's. A Buffalo Open Coffee Club. Or we've got our version of Innovate and Caffeinate on this particular day. Stop by, Right. If they actually do stop by for college do, that's huge, right? So that's like a marker for me if they've got. Maybe this is. It doesn't support those of in the world that are a little bit more reclusive. But if. They're happy to be in conversation and are demonstrating their curiosity to me. Curiosity about others, Others, projects, resources, what's happening in the community. If they're asking those kinds of questions to me, like they're trying to figure out where they fit, where they can contribute. Right. If they've done their own. Homework, right? So students will come. And a good example. Just the other day, student I met, she won our Bulls launch competition. And it was the first time I had heard of her at Bull's Launch. And I met with her and she said, I've met with 12 experts in residence. I was like, what? Excuse me. I've met Reg Weekly with a Venture coach. I was like, wow, this is it, right? Like, again, that follow through, that tenacity when they stop. And I have another one who's working on a food business, and she just pops in and just as like, hey, I've done X. Or you gave me this lead and I followed up right, like that follow through, especially at the collegiate level. That's not a typical kid. Doesn't do that unless they're prodded and nudged along the way.  
Me: I love that. I love the word curiosity. Right? Whether it's curiosity for other people in conversation or curiosity around what's going on, tools, et cetera, I think that really resonates. What do you do if engagement is low? Right. Even if some of these numbers are fuzzy and you're doing surveys? Do you intervene? What happens if your numbers are maybe lower than you'd like them to be?  
Them: Oh, yeah. The team is like, he or she comes again, right? So, absolutely. So I say, like, what are we doing? What aren't we doing? What ideas do you have? Right. And a good example like we had in this in the fall semester, early in the fall semester, our faculty member from our public health school reached out and said, hey, I want to do a Makers fair with our students in our division in ptot, blah, blah, blah. How do we do that? And my team was like, oh, I guess we'll just go and be the lemonade stand. And I'm like, no, no, you're going to work the table. You're going to get us. This is business development. So it's a lot of, like, training people to understand that what we do when we show up in spaces. Is that business development to get people in the door? Because entrepreneurship and innovation is scary. And we have to demonstrate that, like, we're human, right? Like, we care about who they are. And so this one team member that was like, really? You're sending me to just stand there? Right, Came back. And was so excited by what they had experienced that they suggested we do one ourselves. At the end of the fall semester. We did it last week and they let it. And they were. We got so much interest from students and from faculty staff. So that's just one example. But when I look at the numbers and we look at the numbers on a weekly basis, because last year we had 13,000 engagements, overall engagements, we also look at, okay, how many students, how many unique students did we touch of those 13,000 and it's close to 3,000. And then we look like, how many of those students have attended more than two events? Right. So there's like, Pieces. But when we look at the numbers and I say things are low, what else could we be doing? Right? Who else could we be partnering? Who is in our campus network that's hosting an event that we could pop into and add value? Right? That's, like, how we think about it. And then I like for this coming semester. I said, you know, I really feel like as I'm looking at the information, I feel like our partnerships across the KANO units have really centered on a few, and I'm challenging you to. Look for other opportunities. Right. Last year, the university hired 154 new faculty. I'm like, go on that website and check it out and contact them, introduce yourselves to to them and see what we can. So a lot of it I come from my couple of years in industry outside of academia was I worked for a company called Atto Technology, which is a spin out from a UB and I worked in marketing, but I supported the sales channel, both international and domestic. And so I learned what it means to fill. Have a pipeline, right? And then I worked in admissions. And so, like, it's all about, I think, in any, any industry that you're in. And that's what I try to impart on folks, is like, no matter what you're doing, there's a customer that you need to constantly figure out how to engage, how to motivate them to participate in what you're doing. And so it's just different words.  
Me: Yeah, yeah.  
Them: Sorry. I feel like I went off on a tangent.  
Me: This is super helpful, so tangents are certainly welcome. So it sounds like when you do intervene, it is kind of like you in person. Maybe some emails go out with links, stuff like that. I'm making some assumptions, but is that about okay? Okay, that's helpful. So if you could. If you had a magic wand, right? And you could maybe automate or improve, let's say, two or three things in this whole process, what would you do? Magic wand, no limitations.  
Them: I definitely like when it comes to. I think when it comes to our, like, our experts in residence, what I mentioned about the inability to see. How many appointments were booked. Right. And kind of like what their experience was with them. I think people like the. What is it called? Net Promoter score. Is that what.  
Me: Sure. Yep.  
Them: It's. And the nps. Yeah. If we could get that for, like, each expert in residence. I think that would be helpful. I think. I think it's also, like, outreach. So one of the things that we're. The way we identify experts in residence. Like friends of the university and alums. It's like who's introduced to me, who I meet at an event. My team meets at an event, it's a way, like, low level way for anyone to engage with our students. So we need more spaces, because I really want to develop a bigger bench. I'd love. You know, I think I shared the link to our experts. You'll have a chance to look at the gallery. There are tags for each kind of expertise. I think that could be much more streamlined, right? Maybe, like, there's a subcategory of just marketing folks right now. They're all just lumped together, and you have to kind of go through. But I think if I had a magic wand, it would be a broader pool that I could engage as to support our student work. Again. Last night I sent a message to Mike. He was one of I think 12 people I sent an introduction to for one of our students is working on this ed tech tool. But then a half hour later, I was doing the same thing for the student that won the Bulls launch competition, which is more of an NGO project, right? It would be awesome. And I think it's my limitation, like, not all these people are in a database, but I wish I had them in a database that I could just, like, call them up. But it's, like, a lot of me sitting here and saying, okay, like, who do I know who's got the. Right? The contact, like, how can I get in there? And some of it you can do through LinkedIn. I guess something that brings all of that together, right? And again, truthfully, like the piece that I thought was brilliant with mentoredC, and you got.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: People in influence in western New York to buy in, right? I always say you could jump on Mentor deck and you can get 15 minutes of time with Dan Max, right? And you sit next to him. So it might not matter to you, but for the students that's sitting in our collaboratory and is like, the founder of, you know, like, blah, blah, blah. I'm like, yeah, if you find this website, you can book an appointment. Like, how cool is that? And I think that's when. When I saw you, I think. Buffalo is easy to navigate when you know the right people. And I think. I think that's true. It's not just Buffalo. It's just any place. If you know who the connectors are, then you can kind of go anywhere. But I think what mentor decc did was that kind of equalized the plain feel for everybody. You just needed to have. Have the. QR code, right? To be able to go there.  
Me: Sure. Right? Yeah. And you'd have access. That's really great. I love where your head's at there.  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: The next thing I'm kind of thinking about is around. And again, not necessarily, like, mentor deck related, right? Like, I think we're. We're exploring, what, the next evolution, you know, pretty kind of revolutionary idea. But when you talk about maybe the, you know, the things that you'd want improved. My question is really around, like, you know, budget, right? Like, is this something that. You have a budget for or like, help me understand how you. If you'd be willing to pay and what you'd be willing to pay for something that solves this for you.  
Them: I mean. We're. We're paying now for airtable, right? I honestly don't remember what the. The price is. I think, number one, the easiest thing for a university, I think, or anyone that's paying, maybe on a credit card, is that if. The option is there to be monthly. All right. No, I'm sorry. Not monthly, annually.  
Me: Okay?  
Them: I think many plans offer monthly, and that requires when you're reconciling your credit card. It's 12 transactions that you have to reconcile, you know, in a year instead of one. And I don't know why. Like there's a tool called cognito form that we use and it's only monthly, right? And you get different options of like pro and enterprise, blah, blah. At the university one. Of the things. If we kind of like. I use the. I'm a startup. Category. Everything has anything even cloud based has to be vetted by our IT department. So there's a process and it takes about six months to go through that process. So like, truthfully, I should have done it for airtable, but. Right. The other thing like notion. Right. I send you the notion link. We, our students said, let's create a notion page because we can update that more frequently than we can our website. Our website, we have to submit to be done by someone else. And so we, in many ways, are scrappy, like a startup. And we try to. Fly under the radar. As much.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: That's great. And so for. For airtable, do you just pay for kind of one seat, or do you have multiple seats?  
Them: I think the way that we are, we're just one seat, and then everyone shares the login. Monday. Monday.com is a little bit harder. That's like, I think we're at 2700 for a year. But they're, they're pretty specific on the. You know, they figured it out. It's kind of like Netflix now. They figured out how to.  
Me: They caught on.  
Them: Get you pay. Yep.  
Me: Absolutely. They know what they're doing. They would catch up eventually.  
Them: Y. Ep.  
Me: So I think, I think my last question is more round. You know, like, new tools and ease of adoption for students. And you've touched on this a little bit, like, when you're asking mentors or asking students. But maybe you could, like, what makes it super easy for mentors, I'll even say, like, business leaders, folks like that, and students to adopt new technology. Any thoughts there? On what might.  
Them: I think they've heard of it. Right? Like, the more they hear of it, the more. Because we were. When we were evaluating, like, project management tools, we were. We tried to use Trello because students were. Heard about it, and we're like, okay, we'll try it. And then they didn't. Excuse me for a second.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: This is. This is the call that I need to jump off for.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: Is it okay if we reconnect?  
Me: Absolutely. Go take that call. Thank you. Okay.  
Them: Okay? Bye.  
Me: See. Yeah. 