Meeting Title: Jonathan <> Nick
Date: Dec 10
Meeting participants: Nko

Transcript:
 
Them: Hey, how are you?  
Me: Hey, Nick, what's going on?  
Them: Nothing. This lake just went off. Sorry about that. Having some. Issues with lighting, it seems. All right. How are you doing?  
Me: I'm doing. Well, how are you today? You getting into it on this Wednesday afternoon or what?  
Them: Yeah. I'm getting into it. Almost every day these days.  
Me: I like to hear.  
Them: It being the end of the year. And target subjectives, budgets. Holiday parties. HR issues which stem from the holiday. You know, you name it.  
Me: Right.  
Them: It's a full time job. How about everything's good on your side?  
Me: Yeah, man. We are moving fast, talking to folks like yourself about some of the ideas and pain points that we're kicking around. So I appreciate you taking the time today during this busy season.  
Them: Sure. Yeah, my pleasure. I'm happy to. As always. Happy to collaborate, you know?  
Me: Cool. Cool. Well, I have a bunch of questions right. So we are trying to validate an idea, right? Kind of. It's fuzzy, I'll say that, Right? So we're talking to a lot of folks. We're talking to employers like yourself, we're talking to program directors, people like mentors, students, et cetera.  
Them: Okay?  
Me: And what I'm trying to understand from your perspective is you have these hiring objectives, but help me understand how you evaluate this. Maybe early career talent or track candidates you meet along the way. I'm curious to kind of hear your thoughts there.  
Them: Sure. To make sure I understand. You want to know how I evaluate candidates who are very early in their career? And more often than not, don't have a resume that speaks to, you know, a list of accomplishments that I can base my judgment around.  
Me: Yeah. I think it's both that and folks who might have a resume and maybe could talk to the quality of a resume. Obviously, we live in this AI world now where anybody can write shit down on a piece of paper and submit it.  
Them: Right. Right. Exactly.  
Me: But overall, how do you identify the good people?  
Them: Sure. It's pretty simple. So we rarely test people. Well, I guess I'll first preface by just saying our philosophy. Then I can talk more about what the execution of that looks like in terms of process. Our philosophy is right. We want to hire people who can think and act on their feet. Have good judgment. Our logical, rational people. I very rarely can you make that assessment by talking to someone about things that they've spent a lot of time doing. Past job experience, you know, concepts or areas or domains that you know they have a lot of interest or knowledge in. Right. You don't learn anything. About someone you know based on exploring those domains with them. Like, we usually throw people into situations that make them uncomfortable, and we then observe how they react, respond, and think in those environments. Right. That's more or less the baseline. Like, we want people who are clean thinkers. Execution in terms of process interviews are. We try to. For various reasons, we try to keep our interview process as compact. And as efficient as possible. So I like to say we interview one 30 minute phone screen, one 2 hour in person intense interview. We should be able to make a decision. The phone screen is standard stuff. You know, just qualifying questions, location, compensation, work visa, etc. But when they come in for the interview, we sit them down and there's three components to it. For most roles. And I guess in this sense I'll talk more about sales roles. Just that simple place to start. We have case studies. So three case studies. We give you a quick synopsis. You know, you're a CEO of a distribution company. I'm going to paraphrase, CEO of a distribution company. And you let me actually pull it up. Give me a second. Just to make sure I. Okay? So let's imagine you're the CEO of a frozen food company here in Buffalo, New York. You sell products such as frozen chicken, frozen vegetables, ice cream, etc. To local retail stores. In your company, you have 300 employees and you are based out of one location. As the CEO, you know the business processes of the company, how the company operates, and therefore, you have a good overview of the business workflows. One day, Wegmans gets in touch with someone in your company and tells this person that they are interested in buying 200 frozen chickens. Therefore, the salesperson sends a quote for the 200 chickens, and we assume that Wegmans calls the salesperson back. And says they are interested and want to move forward. What we want you to work on over the course of the next 30 minutes in private is the following. In Excalidraw. Please detail the different workflows and processes that will take place in your company as a consequence of this operation at every level. I particularly interested in what business documents will be involved at each step and the people responsible for each of these documents. Starting at the start of the flip, blah, blah, blah. So you get the idea that the concept here is like, most people are like, I'm not a CEO. I don't know about business operations and processes. I've never sold chickens. I've never worked at a distribution company. I've never been exposed to anything outside of marketing department in a company. How could I ever answer this? Think, blah, blah, blah.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: That's the point is we want to see. Can they make sense of all this? Are they thinking. Do they think that when an order is confirmed that there needs to be a shipment? Do they think that the food is frozen? Maybe there needs to be some sort of mechanism at play. First in, first out. Is it freezer? We get into asking all sorts of questions, too, about their workflow. Like? How do you pick the goods? How do you store the goods? How many goods should you order? Let's say you're out of chickens. You only have 50 in stock. How many should you order? How would you think about how many you should order? What business data would you draw on? I love the interview because it's endless and there's no way to prepare for it.  
Me: Yes.  
Them: And we can. Any kind of fun. And you learn a lot about people.  
Me: And that's uncomfortable part, right? It's like, are they making excuses like, I've never done this, or do they apply thinking to this new problem you're putting in front of them?  
Them: Exactly. Yes. I've never done. This is like the biggest red flag.  
Me: Yeah. Just like, yeah, totally.  
Them: It means that you're applying for a job you've never done. You're fresh out of school. Like I'm not. I know you've never done it. Not the question.  
Me: Right. Yeah.  
Them: You know?  
Me: So many of the people I talk to are talking about these kind of soft skills. I'll call them. Right. Or simply not questions that they can answer or put something on a cv. It's like how you work through this stuff in real time before they get to the interview process. Are there certain criteria that you're looking for, whether it's in a resume or otherwise? Maybe it's a network, right? To get them and say, we're going to extend an interview that first 30 minutes of these folks. Or do you go through that with everybody?  
Them: We typically look for. I guess you're asking, I think, what determines whether or not we decide to give someone a phone screen. Is. We're gonna look at the resume. We're going to look. All right. Are they local? What are they studying in school? If they have past work experience. Where did they work? What do they do? For how long? Things like are they in a senior position there? It's so why are they applying for an account executive entry level sales role? You know, so on and so forth. So we'll use the resume. To gauge whether or not. We think there's going to be compatibility. Both with their interests and what we do and with what we can offer and what they're looking for. But I think. Yeah, business degree. I don't even want to say we're 2 degrees specific. Right. And maybe that's a bias. I have a literature degree in an economics degree. So it's like if people saw my resume in the day, it was clown. But yeah, I think that's the way we interview a lot of people. The threshold is pretty low in terms of. What we need to see before taking a 30 minute phone screen. And then once they're on the phone screen, Can they communicate well? Can they articulate themselves well? Are they long winded? Are they concise? Do they have good vocabulary? How do they present? Are they clean? Where did they take the interview? Is it on a subway, or did they harvest side time to create an environment that would allow for them to have a productive conversation? Can they speak well about what they studied in school? Can they make good arguments for why they did this or that after college? I mean, all of these little things roll up to help us decide. Are we dealing with a competent human being that's likely going to not only be able to do well in in the subsequent steps that follow, but also, are they going to enjoy it? That's kind of the idea that we. That's how I applied it.  
Me: I love this. This is super helpful. And. So I'd imagine you use some ATS tooling or how do you manage this stuff?  
Them: We do it all. And Odo, I can show you quick if you want to see.  
Me: Okay?  
Them: Yeah, it's pretty simple. Can you see my screen?  
Me: Yep.  
Them: So we have our recruitment app right in Odo. And it's going to just show me a list view. I could do like a list view of all of the different roles we're hiring for. You know, we could take the account executive in Buffalo and I could drill down into this. It will take me to the pipeline, and here I can see all the incoming. Applicants on my left. And this. There's. There's many more because we've already. Thank God our recruiters are doing their job. You know, 9,206 people have applied since we've opened this position a couple years ago. And, you know, we can go in and we can see, like Thomas Falcan. You know, we store all the resume. All that information gets captured right here and what we call a chatter. Oops. Let me just minimize. This. There we go. You know, we can see. I'll manage all of our communication right here. This. This looks like it came from Better Team. And, yeah, we had. Then once we actually go into the weeds of, like, having a call with this person, we store all of our notes and whatnot right in here. Can have everything stored, basic stuff here as well. And you can see this is actually a referral. From an internal employee. So that is where we. That's how we manage it today. Probably not the most advanced tool out there in terms of ats, but it works.  
Me: Yeah. It gets the job done. Right. That's great. Does it, like. Does it fall apart? Where is there friction or where's there pain? Where does water leak out of the bucket in this process that? If you had a magic wand, you'd be like, I'd change that.  
Them: Yeah. I think that we live in Buffalo, New York, and there are not a lot of software companies out there. That people work for prior to coming to work for us. So, you know, I mean, if you're in New York and you're hiring people, account executives, you know, a large majority of the people who come and work for you are coming from another software company where they were likely some. An AE or a bdr. So there's a lot of familiarity with, like, you. Know business, the business model, how these companies work, what skills are required. You need to be able to do a demo. You have to share your screen. You need to know how to take notes while you're also talking to somebody. I mean, there's all these little skills that, you know, would be really nice for people. To have. That in Buffalo they don't have. And which is fine. We've. We've. Calibrated other parts of our business to compensate for that, like our onboarding, etc. But it does make evaluating candidates trickier. Because, you know, instead of asking, like, can this person sell? We have to ask, well, can this person do these 10 things that if they can do, would increase the probability that they can sell effectively. So I don't know so much that it's a part of our. Our process is just there's a lot of small mechanisms that we need to figure out effectively is to assess for that. You know, to help us determine if they're going to be successful. And I don't think we've. I don't think we do a great job. It isn't as fun it is in this fine tuned as I would want it to be. There's still a lot of we hire. In short, we hire a lot of people that I don't think should have been hired. I wouldn't say a lot, but say we hire more than I'd like.  
Me: And then you rely on kind of onboarding and training those people up in the first 90 days or whatever. Or.  
Them: We have an so we have a general onboarding for the first three weeks. After that, we have eight weeks of team specific onboarding. So you go into your respective team, and there you are. You're essentially put on the floor. But you're also going to classes every day where you're learning role specific skills to be to do well. And it's usually in those first 90 days. When we know whether or not someone's got it.  
Me: Yeah. Yeah, that's helpful. Now, our folks paired with, like, a more senior employee or something. Like, even like a mentorship style program. Do you do any of that?  
Them: Not formally. Not formally.  
Me: So it just happens informally now? What's your. What's your interest in that type of stuff? Or even just, like, share with me candidly? What's your belief in formal mentorship?  
Them: I think mentorship is important.  
Me: For.  
Them: But it. I don't think we should enforce it. The reason I don't think we should enforce it is because it is not another account executive's job. To babysit and to be responsible for educating another employee that account. I want people working on things that they're good at. Right. And a good account executive is good at selling. A good software developer is good at developing software. If they're interested in rising or in evolving their role to in some sort of management capacity. Right. That's why we have team leaders, that's why we have onboarding coaches, that's why we have managers to take ownership over the evolution of the team's knowledge. If that means sitting with someone. For three weeks to make sure they learn and grow. Then that's what it means. I mean, it's going to sound ridiculous, but I am responsible for the subsidiary here in the United States. And sometimes I will find sales, I will find managers or even team leaders who are below managers who are struggling, and I will go sit with them for a month. And I'll do other things, but I'll carve out two or three hours a day to shadow, to coach, sit in on their meetings, write them feedback. Like, that's everyone's job. Like, if you're in a management capacity, like, your job is to elevate the knowledge of the team. It is not other employees jobs to. I don't think it's their job to do it. If someone wants to shadow a call with any kind of executive and listen and maybe has some questions after they want to ask that guy here, that girl. Can I get a cup of coffee and talk to you about that? Sure. Never going to say no. I think that's fine. Actually, that's a good sign. Shows that they're taking initiative, but formalizing it, adding structure to it, I think is overkill.  
Me: Yeah, that's really helpful.  
Them: Just my opinion.  
Me: Oh, that's great. I think. I. What stands out to me is this idea that, like, when people choose to do that, There is that initiative. Right? Like they're going above and beyond to help grow or strengthen the organization. By tighter, deeper collaboration within. And that's a lot of. Kind of what. What I'm thinking about. Are you familiar with, like, what a mastermind group is?  
Them: Masterminger, is it? No. Let's assume, though.  
Me: Yeah, so it's a. It's essentially, you know, very small groups of people. Right. Usually focused around similar goals. Think, like, it could be anywhere from, like, new dads, right? Five new dads that get together and talk about stuff and how to be a good father at that age. Or it could be, I don't know, mid level software engineers who are trying to, like, level up in the game. They get together, right, and they. Typically share very openly and honestly what their challenges are, and then they work through it together. It's almost like a peer mentorship thing. But it happens, you know, at, like, an executive level, and it could happen at, like, a very junior level as well.  
Them: Okay?  
Me: These are some of the things that I'm exploring. And, you know, basically, how could we get people collaborating? And what I'll say, like, you know, teaching each other right through maybe informal mentorship or subgroups. Just like maybe. Maybe leading the witness a little bit. Let me just see what I have here on my question sheet.  
Them: I think it makes sense. I guess the big difference for me whether or not mentorship is a good thing or a bad thing is, is it something that happens organically, or is it something that's forced upon people? Because I promise you, there are a lot of people in the company. That don't care like they should care. And they're just going to waste people's time. So. And I don't. I don't want to waste pop performers time with people that don't care. You know, so it's like. But more often than not, almost always the person who takes initiative or organically. To seek out mentorship. Builds a relationship with other top performers in order to get that guidance. They get absorbed into the top performance culture. And. And we're. And we're building. So I think it's like. It's almost like a trap in a way, inverse trap.  
Me: Yes. Yeah.  
Them: It can, you know.  
Me: I can see that. And, you know, a little bit of, you know, unengagement or people who claim to be a mentor, they're kind of poison in the water. Right. In any sort of network, whether it's bigger or smaller group, it could be very challenging.  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: Okay, so. Talked a little bit kind of about hiring process, identifying talent. I'm curious, like, are you guys looking everywhere? Do you focus in Buffalo to find folks? And how's that going?  
Them: It's we. We. Typically, I try to stick to, like, driving distance. So, like, what? Because we're. We're three days a week in office, I'd like to up that eventually. Over time to four days, eventually five days. I am not an advocate of work from home. Whether I'm right or wrong, time will tell. But I think that it's important to be in the office and focused on the mission. It's where you're going to learn the fastest. You're going to meet people, mentorship. You're going to. You know, we can assess you faster. Like, it's just all around. Everything moves faster, which is a good thing. So I typically say, like, because of our work from home. Policy. And our adverse to it. I think it's important everyone is comfortable commuting into the office. So 40, 50 miles, I think like is kind of the outer range of like, what makes sense if somebody is like, yeah, I live in Rochester and I'm happy to come to the office four days, three days a week, five days for the first two months while I ramp up, I'm like, It's not really practical. And I'd rather not roll dice with having to deal with this, you know, later on down the line. So, yeah, so we. That's our range, our radius. It's as far as, like, our. What we see in the market, it's. It's business as usual. I mean. You know, you're dealing with a ton of. We hire a lot of fresh grads. You know, we're occasionally pulling people from Ingram or M and T or ACV or, you know, or Rich Products or Delaware north, and they're continually pulling people from us. Just the circle of. Of life. It's fine. But I don't think, like there's been no change to the quality of talent, the talent in our environment, the. The quantity or anything like that, I mean. Even our relation. I mean, your relation. You'll have relationships with different universities. They all talk all about grant these grandiose ideas about how they want to collaborate. And there's so much potential and what's happening in our ecosystem, it's growing so much. And none of that's true. I just think it's kind of just. It's. It's status quo. It's. They don't. The relationships never go anywhere.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: They have zero interest in forming any meaningful partnership. Unless it's taking their. Unless it's sponsoring visas for the people that they. That they push into our market who don't have work authorization. You know, it's. It's very. That's. That's what it is. So I stopped investing a lot of time and energy into that. I know some of our recruiters are still hopeful and have good relationships with people at ub, Buff, State, et cetera, to let them do their thing, but otherwise, I don't think that that's like a. A magic formula.  
Me: Yeah, that's really fair. It's funny. I've heard that sentiment. That you've expressed a number of times with the, with the universities, and that's some of our mission, you know, through the 43 North foundation, right, is to create that tighter bond of connectivity between university, whether it's early stage companies or later stage companies, but ultimately allowing people to stay here in Buffalo and create their. Create their career path here. Are you typically? Yeah, go ahead.  
Them: I was going to say, like, I guess, like, what I don't understand is. Like. I guess I would like to look at an example. Can be from any. Any company in any. In any, you know, with any university. Like, what does an ideal collaboration look like between a company like an Odoo or an M and a bank? And a university. And like, what is an ideal collaboration look like? Because I get it. I'm biased. I want. I. I'm in an ideal world. I get influence over aspects of the curriculum. They're using my software in the classrooms. They're teaching accounting with it. They're spitting out. Students are familiar with our tech stack, they can come and work for us right away. Yeah, that's probably, like, not going to work. I mean, it's very lopsided in terms of the, you know, value add there, so. But, like, help. I want someone to help me manage my expectations. You know, almost like I want to know what an idea, what a collaboration looks like. You know, what is the business? What's the outcome for me? What's the outcome from the school? What's the outcome for the student? I don't need everything. But like, what are some things that I can count on that will help me justify allocating energy into a partnership?  
Me: That's really great. Yeah. It sounds from everybody I've spoken with, that it's pretty opaque, right, for employers.  
Them: Super. Yeah, it's super opaque. It's frustrating.  
Me: Yeah. Yeah, it really is. Especially because we have such a good, you know, network of universities here. Are you typically just, like, out on job boards, like, posting your positions out there? Do you ever go through network to say, like, oh, someone knows, Jonathan. Let's get him in. Like, help me.  
Them: Yeah. So we. We do all the standard LinkedIn monster. Indeed. Like, we're ripping on all job boards, but we also have this cool thing. Called. I'll share my screen again. Called our referrals app. So here I. I can go in and I can see where I'm at. And I, you know, it's gamified where I can earn tokens and, and I can buy rewards and things like that, Amazon gift cards, etc. But what I can do is I can view the jobs. And when I click on like share now, you'll see. If this URL. SXS actually, this is. This relates this particular application. The application that is generated is a consequence of someone clicking this link. Is tied back to me. You see. So it will track so everyone has access to the referral app across the country, company, every employee, so they can go in and say, hey, you know, hey, Jonathan, I'm going to send you a link to this job. And when you open it, you'll see if you look at the utm, you know. It's the business advisor role. And the source is Nicholas Kczynski. And they'll apply through here, and it will associate me with that application. And then depending on where the application goes throughout the process, I think it's in levels. You. If it goes into. Like this. No, these are just levels here. Where is it? Level rewards or positions, maybe. Anyway, depending on how far along it goes in the pipeline, you generate X number of points, and then all of those points can be used to buy things. So this is like. This has been an extremely effective way for employees internally to, to incentivize them to refer people. We also have a referral bonus that sits on top of everything that happens in the app, where they get $600 per hire.  
Me: Okay. And you see good usage through this product and stuff like that.  
Them: Yeah, everybody uses it.  
Me: Yeah, I'd imagine.  
Them: We, we enforce it. I mean, if you want to get a referral, if you want to get the referral bonus, you have to refer with your link. If you don't refer with your link, You don't get it.  
Me: Yeah, that makes sense. Really cool. I know we're at 130, and I want to be respectful of your time. Is there? I'm wondering if there's just anything else I want to ask before we jump off here. Nothing comes to mind immediately, but I want to keep you in the loop as we continue to do market discovery on this concept. Again, it's pretty blurry right now. That includes a lot of different Personas in the ecosystem. Obviously, the employer is one. We're talking to a bunch of people at University. We are talking to mentors and other people who want to help out in this kind of geographically vertical software that we're thinking about from Buffalo. So I can keep you in the loop if you're interested, but really appreciate your time today, Nick.  
Them: Yeah, anytime. Definitely. Keep me in the loop. I'm super interested in collaborating on these things in whatever capacity. Even beyond just sharing knowledge. I mean, if you guys are. If you're looking to build something to solve these problems, I'd be more than happy to. To get involved to in whatever extent possible.  
Me: Yeah. Awesome. I really appreciate that. Thanks again.  
Them: Cool.  
Me: Awesome.  
Them: Man. Take it easy. Good job. Good. Talk to you later. 