Meeting Title: Networking Research Interview (Suhas Kunte Manjunath Rao)
Date: Dec 17
Meeting participants: Suhasvarun1

Transcript:
 
Them: Hey. Hi, jake.  
Me: Hey, good morning. How are you?  
Them: I'm good. How about you?  
Me: I'm doing pretty well. Thanks so much for taking some time to chat with me this morning. It's been very difficult to find people to talk to, so I am sincerely just appreciative of Dick the time on your day to day, so thank you.  
Them: Yeah. Here we go.  
Me: I figured what might be a good way to start is because maybe just a level, set me a little bit, like I don't know anything about you, so maybe give me a sense of where you're at in your career journey coming out of school. And kind of what you've been doing up to this point, and we kind of go from there.  
Them: Yeah, sure. So hi, I'm Suhas. So I completed my undergrads in computer science back in India and followed by the post that I worked as a software developer for two years in the company called Brillio, where I primarily worked as a backend developer. And going forward I worked even for as an AI engineer for six to seven months. Post that I found some interests in AI. Like I wanted to learn how things work behind the AI. So I quit my job and I came from a master's to pursue my master's in us. So currently I'm studying in university at Buffalo. As a master's in computer science degree. So after I finished my first semester, and today is my first day of my vacation,  
Me: Okay. Awesome. All right.  
Them: Yeah. So that's about me? Yeah.  
Me: Perfect. And then, have you looked into any types of. Are you solely focused on studies right now, or are you also looking for work while you're wired in school? And have you done any type of job hunting or even looking for internships? I think would be another thing that I think would probably classify.  
Them: So currently during my first semester I did one of my volunteer position which I worked on was on a research under a professor like whose name is Ongsinho. There I worked on the project worked on a project called LLM Security where currently he and his team are currently working on benchmarking of LLMs like how well the LLMs are how well the LLMs are secure in generating the code. How well secure codes are generated. So I worked on that like as in a volunteer position. And I'm actually looking for internships and I'm reaching out as many number of people and I'm trying to apply as many companies as work. I didn't get any positive response till now. But I'm actively looking for internship, summer internships.  
Me: Okay?  
Them: Here.  
Me: How many have you say that you reached out to or that you've applied to? Like, what does the volume look like?  
Them: I restart as many people, like around 20 to 25 people on LinkedIn. So where like I got around 4 to 5, positive response. And most of them I've seen zone me like by looking at my message I didn't get any much reply nor people have told me that try applying on research career page. And I did get calls from two companies. One is IBM and the other one was TikTok, where I had to where I've cleared the initial rounds, post the tiring, gating calls from any of these two companies. Yeah.  
Me: Have you? So you've reached out to a bunch of people on LinkedIn. Would you say that that's the primary platform that you've used to do your professional networking and try to meet people that might be able to get you connected with opportunities?  
Them: No, I haven't. Apart from LinkedIn. I've not used any other platform to reach out to the people.  
Me: Okay, so LinkedIn primarily. And then what would you say is the hard. Well, let me say that differently.  
Them: Here. Yeah.  
Me: Have you found it challenging to find the right people to reach out to? I think that that would be the question I'm looking for. So you might find an opportunity. But who do you connect with? And are they the right person to talk to? Has that been a challenge?  
Them: Yes. Yes, it is kind of challenging because most of the people I reach out is someone from talent acquisition. I try to reach out some alumni from UB as well, but I didn't get any positive response. And I researched, like, who is the best person to reach out to. So I saw that talent acquisition team is the best person to reach out to because they are the people who will be hiring for the company. So if any positions awakened so they might hire me as well. So the primary person would be HR and Talent Acquisition.  
Me: And how did you do that? Research. To determine that that's who you should reach out to at that organization.  
Them: So I have asked a couple of my friends who are already being into this process, like who looked here. And apart from that, I've also so I've read on Reddit as well, where how people make connections. So that is how I figured out that to reach out to the talent acquisition team. Here.  
Me: Okay? All right. And then is there anything specific that you've done to maybe stand out? I know it's a crowded space, and a lot of people are fighting for a few opportunities. To like. Has there anything specific that you've done to try to stand out from your peers?  
Them: That's a really good question. I asked this question a lot of times to myself, why my application is Will my application stand out among the thousand other people. But to this question, I think I've not done anything much because when I compare my job profile. With the others. Even I have worked for two years. Others as well have worked for two years. I'm doing some volunteer position here as well. Even others who have done that. So I feel, I consider myself that I've not done anything like standing out. And I'm not sure what to do, like, just stand out. Because whatever I try to do, I feel that most people would have already achieved this. So what makes me different? So that question is still made in my mind.  
Me: Yeah, I think that's just to be.  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: Transparent with you. I think that's a very common problem. But not everyone has that answer. Right. So you're definitely not alone in that. So don't be too hard on yourself there. I think. Have you. I guess I'm wondering about mentorship.  
Them: Yeah. Yeah.  
Me: Have you had any, have you built any relationships with anybody that outside of your peer group that would be like a mentor in the business community? That has helped guide you. Have you made any of those types of connections with anybody to date?  
Them: Primarily, whenever I go to college, I try to speak with my seniors, and I'll try to take their suggestions. Like who are already, who have already secured a job or who have already have an interviews. So there is no any particular person like with whom I'll like with whom every time I seek out to But I always go to college. Like I had one class, like in my first semester, like where it was a group of first semester last semester, all the people you start in the class. It's primarily a research class. So there. I used to always post class. I always used to reach out to seniors and I used to take guidance from them. So apart from that, it's not like there is only one person with me whom I can seek out to this. No one.  
Me: Okay? Okay? And the project to the product that we're doing these interviews for right now is an idea that we have here at the Venture Studio, where we're looking at potentially creating. A call it a localized version of LinkedIn, where it's more. Where it generates more personal connections with people, as opposed to LinkedIn, which is just this big ocean of people and lots of ghosting and messages that don't ever get responded to.  
Them: Okay?  
Me: And we're seeing a lot of issues with that that we're interested in kind of. Coming up with a solution to kind of connect people in more meaningful ways. And one of the ways that we're looking at doing that is by using messaging apps that you might already be using. As opposed to having yet another app to go download, right? So I think I'm wondering with that in mind. What messaging apps are you using on a regular basis? In addition to Asset Master Imessage or using things like WhatsApp or Discord Slack, Other messaging apps. On a regular basis.  
Them: So I think most of the apps which you mentioned, that is my primary apps, like WhatsApp, Instagram, Facebook Messenger. And Reddit. So apart from that. I use themes as well, like maybe to communicate with where I'm volunteer, research where I'm doing. So I communicate with them on teams. So apart from that? Yeah, apart from that. I don't have any messaging app, which I use. So yeah.  
Me: Okay? That's perfect. Jessica, trying to get a sense because I've come across a few people who don't use what we think WhatsApp might be the best platform to use this for, but some people we've talked to just don't have it, don't have any desired user and would never use it. So it's kind of like, how do you find that one platform that everybody will be on? So it's a little bit of a challenge. I think that gets through all my questions that I had for you. I told you I'd keep this brief. I appreciate the time that you had with me. I always kind of just wait for. I don't want to just rush off the call in case you have any questions for me. So I've been just a little. Give you a little bit about me. I've been in the product development space for about 25 years as I spent most of the past decade as like a VP of product. And a bunch of health tech startups. So that's kind of my experience in this community. I would say that find me on LinkedIn. We can connect. I can be someone in your network that you can leverage from this point forward. But with that, if you had any questions for me, I'd be happy to help you.  
Them: She? Ila. Sheila. Yeah. So the questions which I have is like, as I earlier mentioned, How do I stand out among those thousand applicants? Or what should I do? I have one month of holidays now, my winter break. So I thought to utilize this properly in a way where I can. My goal is to get an internship, like in summer. So what do you think I should do going forward, like, or how should I stand out among those thousand applicants?  
Me: I think, and this is something that's involved. My own opinion on this is evolving.  
Them: Here.  
Me: Pretty rapidly. Because I think that the entire ecosystem is shifting and changing very quickly. So what I would say is that for both specifically to you and your type of work that you do,  
Them: Yes.  
Me: But I say that. But this almost applies to anybody. You need to have some type of portfolio. That demonstrates your products and your passions. Talks about who you are as a person, not just as an employee or a worker. Something that if you can get people to that portfolio, it's going to communicate more than a resume ever could. And if they have any interest in you, I think that that is one way to stand out, even if they don't go into detail and look at every nook and cranny of the site. I think especially with how easy it is now to use the vibe coding tools that are out there to build a beautiful portfolio in no time flat. Leverage that spend some time, if you haven't gone into that, going down that path, like, go down that path a little bit. And come up with a portfolio that talks about problems you've solved. And how you, I think, demonstrate your critical thinking and the way that you address issues and problems and talk about your flexibility with different tech stacks and how you can use different things for different problems. I think that that communicating in that type of message. Is gonna. I think not everyone's doing that. A lot of people are just using the resume and being like, well, here's my resume and here's what I've done, and here's, you know, what I wanna do.  
Them: Yes. Y. Es. Yes.  
Me: And you're just another resume in a scene. Resumes? Now, you still have to get that portfolio looked at. That's the other part of it. But I would also encourage things like if there's something that you really want and you're like, I need to stand out. I mean, you start to think about ways to really stand out. I don't care if you have to ship a box of donuts with QR code on the inside lid.  
Them: Y. Es.  
Me: To someone's office, right? Do something interesting that's gonna be like, wow, that guy sent a box of donuts with a QR code that led to his portfolio. That's the kind of thing. It might sound silly and it might be like, oh, I could never do that. That's so cringe, or whatever, but at the end of the day, Those are the things that are gonna make you stand out. And if you wanna just keep submitting resumes into a black hole, feel free. But there's gonna be semblance of luck that's gonna have to factor into that approach.  
Them: Yeah. Correct? Yep. Yep. And also you mentioned about the tool which you are developing. Right. So now the link, then, that's the smaller version of LinkedIn. So now is it, like, available for the students like me to use, like, to check out how the platform works, other things?  
Me: Yeah, that's the idea. We're really in the idea stage right now, so we're validating the concept. We have a prototype that we've been working on, so we're very early in this, but we expect to have some traction over the next two months. We haven't even made any commitment to proceed with it.  
Them: Okay?  
Me: Which is why we're trying to have as many of these conversations as we can with people to see learn about the struggles that you're facing. I think that a lot of the interviews, especially with students, all follow a very similar pattern. And I think there's way more people looking for opportunities than there are opportunities. And AI has played a pretty big role in. Both ends of that AI is helping write resumes. It's also helping recruiters scan resumes. So you have a lot of AI in the middle. That's, you know, making that old way of applying to jobs.  
Them: Yes.  
Me: Become less and less effective. For people. So in addition to the. In addition to the economy kind of hurting right now,  
Them: Correct.  
Me: I think we're in a recession, even if the government doesn't wanna call it that. Funny. Enough money, right?  
Them: Yep.  
Me: All right.  
Them: Yep. Yes. All right.  
Me: Any other questions before I let you go?  
Them: Yeah, I would definitely reach out to you on LinkedIn. So, yeah, if I have any further questions, I'll definitely post it on LinkedIn. Right now. I'm done with my questions. Yeah, thanks a lot. Thanks a lot.  
Me: Awesome. Okay? Awesome. Yeah.  
Them: Yeah. Thank you.  
Me: My pleasure. It was great to meet you. And thanks again.  
Them: It was great meeting you as well. Thank you.  
Me: All right. 