Meeting Title: Networking Research Interview (Jason Safro)
Date: Dec 9
Meeting participants: Info

Transcript:
 
Me: Them. But I'm happy to stay on later if you can have as much of my time this morning as you'd like.  
Them: Much. I'll try to keep it quick. But yeah, I would like to ask get a little of your advice.  
Me: Sure.  
Them: But first, what can I answer for you?  
Me: Yeah. So I'm in the process of talking to as many people as I can about this project that I'm working on. I recently joined a venture studio here in Buffalo, had worked with these guys. Previously at various stops in my career, and they're working on a project right now that we're trying to validate. I think we're all pretty confident that the pain is here and felt by people, but we're just trying to talk to different flavors of people in different stages of career in different areas of Personas to figure out if our hypotheses are correct, basically. So I think what would help me a little bit, and I just remember from the first time we chatted, I checked out your LinkedIn profile or whatever. But maybe if you could just start by just catching me up to speed on kind of like what you do, how long you've been doing it and kind of where you're headed. I guess from a career perspective, that would level set me.  
Them: Okay? Sure the first half of that is easy on the software developer. I specialize in php. And platform called Drupal. Drupal is heavily used by government. I've been doing it 25 years. And I'm pretty senior. I have my own shop of one. I tried at one point to grow it out. And had at one point ten people. Working with or under. But I just was not good at. We didn't arrange the business. Well, at that point, And I spent. I mean. The money was great, but the work was 80 hours a week. And it wasn't my specialty. We didn't arrange our business. Well, there. That fell apart. I went back to being a sole. Sole proprietor, I guess. Just me doing my thing. And my niche now is subcontracting to larger agents, larger consulting shops. In the past 10 years. I've had. Maybe a little less. Past eight years, I've had two clients.  
Me: Okay? Okay? So I guess my next question would be. So given that you have, most of your work is coming from those two relationships that you had. You're probably not a big need to be. Well, I don't want to lead. I don't want to lead the lead. The question, I guess. Are you still actively looking for more clients, or are you just kind of, like, in more of an autopilot mode where you're just, like, using the. Work for those two clients because it's so stable and reliable.  
Them: Sure. When I started, so it's been two, but serial it was one and then the next. With the first one. I was with them when I was running multiple clients. And came out of that exhausted, burned out and happy to just run with one. That project ended during Covid. I picked up the new consulting shop. And then after Covid, I started traveling. I've been living in nomad life. Since 2021. More. For most of that period, I've been in a new city about every month.  
Me: I think I could just finish the rest of the time talking about that, because I want to hear more about that. But that's admirable. I, like, long for that type of freedom to do that. I have six kids at home, and because of that, my roots are very established.  
Them: You were six kids.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: You are the man.  
Me: I got four bio kids, two stepdaughters. So. Anyway, that's not the point. Okay, so that's kind of cool. So I think that from. I think I'm wondering from a professional networking perspective, right? So I think about the common use cases for LinkedIn. And I'm wondering. With LinkedIn specifically. Why are you on there? You must be active on there because that's how you saw my first post. And you know, so, like, what do you use LinkedIn for and why?  
Them: Sure. I am at this point. Deeply concerned about my career. Future. So for a couple weeks. First, I have not been able to raise my rates. In the past eight years. For a while I was using LinkedIn just as market research. To see, you know, what are companies offering? And it wasn't budging. But that neither here nor there. So I guess to answer your question, I was using it for market research.  
Me: Okay?  
Them: On the general. It's good to maintain networks, even if I didn't really have an active need. At this point, I do. I also have the concern that I see salaries in my field dropping. And I see a significant increase in applicants relative to jobs. So I feel like it's time to reskill. And I've been using LinkedIn to research. Basically, as I troll through the LinkedIn job ads. I kind of keep little notes. And mental track of what is paying. What's adjacent to my skill set and paying the kind of money that I would like to make. If my current position filter.  
Me: Gotcha. Okay?  
Them: So I guess it's been research. A research tool.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: I would say that overall I generally dislike the the content in my LinkedIn feed.  
Me: Now. Go check.  
Them: You know, there's people talking about, like, when I was 12 years old, I killed a baby kitten, and it launched my career into social media. Or some just.  
Me: Right. Drop drop Kitten in the comments and I'll send you my PDF guide on how you can do it too.  
Them: Yeah, exactly.  
Me: Yeah. Throughout a lot of these conversations I've been having. And again, I don't want to, you know, plant seeds here, but it seems like a lot of the people think that it's all performative and that there's a certain lack of authenticity that you're seeing, at least with, like, public posts. Right. And that when you are trying to, like, connect with people over, like, messaging in the app, that a lot of times people won't respond to you, just get ghosted completely. Like, they'll. They'll connect with you, but then if you try to engage with them, they won't respond. So it's like, why are we even connected? Right.  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: I mean, like. Like you sent me a message a couple days ago over the weekend, and I. I didn't even. I didn't even see it or ever had a respondent, even though I knew we were talking, so go figure.  
Them: That is nothing. That's really one day. Because I sent it to you on Sunday. Sunday doesn't count.  
Me: I guess I got fair enough.  
Them: And it's Tuesday, right? And we're just getting started on Tuesday.  
Me: That's good. So anyway, I'm just. I'm self deprecating on myself a little bit, but so. What I'm trying to figure out. We have, like, four distinct Personas that we have been, like, trying to talk to, but I almost have, like, this, like, not everybody fits cleanly into each one of those. So there's almost, like, this, like, other category. And I don't really have a preset list of questions that would fit someone that is. In that is in your situation, which would actually be similar to, like, my own situation. Right. So it's like, there's a lot of people who fit into this kind of category, but I don't have a preset list of questions for this category. But I think that's also telling, as I do. This exercise to say that, okay, there are a lot of people that are in this situation. I think that from. A call it the career. Like worrying about maybe the future of your career as an engineer. I mean, I have similar. Probably. We'll talk about this probably when you get to your questions, but I'm wondering. What is your biggest concern right now? For your own professional future. Like you've alluded to that. But like, what is. What is your concern?  
Them: I have. I feel like I have tapped out as a php drupal developer. That I probably capped out. Five or six years ago. But then. Covid and life. And things were I was doing well enough that I was content. And then traveling for four or five years or four years. I found satisfaction in other things. But I need to make a new step. I need to take a next step. And. I don't know what it is. I don't know how to go about it. But. In everything about that next step is a question.  
Me: Okay? Yeah. Let me. I'm gonna word it. And again, this is probably off the track of the way that would normally handle this, but I'm kind of put this into my own words and see if this resonates with you. So I look at some careers, like being a doctor. Right. If you. If you go into medicine and you become a doctor, there is a pretty confident. You know, path of, like, okay, that job is gonna change over time. There's gonna be technology, new advancements, medicines, whatever. You know, you'll go to continuing education, but that career is pretty much a solid straight line. Where then you have other types of careers that completely didn't exist. Like, I always used the example of a toll booth operator, right? Told me with the operator didn't exist. And then all of a sudden it peaked in, like, 1995, and there were like 25,000 of them. And now today there's none. Right. So some careers follow that trajectory. Me being in software, you being in software. I think we probably both realize that we've passed the peak. And that we're now on the downward slope. Of what that career looks like. And that we're like, okay. We need to figure out something to pivot so that we can get back on an upward slope. Or at least maintain, or else we're just gonna be unemployed and have no skills to get us back into the workforce. Does that resonate with you?  
Them: Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Everything about it. It's not like I can take my skills and go build houses or fix cars. I know what a chicken looks like, but I wouldn't know how to get. If a chicken's running around. I would not know how to eat it.  
Me: Right? Right. Yeah. And I think that's not just me and you feeling this pressure, right? I think the entire industry, you know, think about how many people are in tech and doing something with software. Right. It's like everybody's feeling mad. And I think that it's affecting a lot. But anyway, let me just make sure. I'm wrapping up the rest of the things that I wanted to get out of you before I kind of handed over to you for your questions. From a platform perspective, we're looking at a solution. If we get to that point right where it wouldn't be an app, we don't want to give people yet another app to download. So the idea is that we would want to use the existing messaging apps that are already on someone's phone. And do basically, like, an introduction where you might have, like, an AI companion type thing that you can text or even call back and forth. And maybe it does an interview with you to learn what you're good at and learn what you're passionate about and kind of get a snapshot of you. Then it builds this library of all these different Personas or people, profiles of people. And then when you have a need, it can actually almost do, like, the matchmaking for you. Be like, oh, I have someone that you should talk to. This person could probably help you and find those mutually beneficial arrangements and connect people together. Right? And then they can talk over chatter. If they want to move to some other platform or whatever, they can. So with that being the base for how we would do this, what messaging apps are you consistently using? That would be like, okay, yeah, I would do it on that. Would it be obviously probably SMS and imessage or whatever. But do you also use WhatsApp or are you in Discord communities? What different platforms are you currently using?  
Them: Sure. What's Up? Is my primary messaging app for personal life.  
Me: Okay?  
Them: And my sns is unreliable. Except it's reliably unreliable at the worst times.  
Me: Fair.  
Them: And then professionally. Slack.  
Me: Okay? Okay? How many different.  
Them: But I would.  
Me: How many different slack communities are you in, would you say?  
Them: Just. Probably only about four.  
Me: Four. Okay?  
Them: Yeah. Not that many. I feel like modern life is a giant tension work. And the more communities, the more ways people have to get a hold of me. The more. The less important, the higher volume of unimportant messages again.  
Me: Right. Right. Yeah, that makes sense. That makes sense.  
Them: You know, like. Do I really need to know when? When someone updated a documentation page that I wrote 14 years ago. Oh. I don't care.  
Me: Right. Yeah, and that's exactly that time we notifications that they love to send you. 