Meeting Title: Networking Research Interview (Nathaniel Wolff)
Date: Dec 9
Meeting participants: Nathanielawolff

Transcript:
 
Me: One second. Area.  
Them: No worries.  
Me: There we go. All right. Issues resolved. Perfect. Sorry about the delay there. I appreciate hanging out for me for a few minutes.  
Them: No worries. All right. I'm here.  
Me: Perfect. So, first off, thank you so much for talking to me. It's been really difficult to try to find people to talk to. So I really appreciate it.  
Them: Sure.  
Me: And I think I want to just kind of start with maybe letting you kind of introduce yourself to me. So maybe we can just level set with where you're at in your career and what you've done to date so far. If you. I think maybe just starting there to level set me would be a great first step.  
Them: Yeah. Yeah, you bet. Happy to help. Jake. Anyway, so. Yeah, I mean, I graduated from college two years ago. Not two years, a year and a half.  
Me: Okay?  
Them: And so where I'm at in my career, kind of early stage, I'm applying to grad schools right now, but that's kind of where that's kind of what got me interested in. What you're doing. Trying to improve the flow of, you know. How do you describe it? The whole, you know, trying to optimize the system, which is broken, and it's not helping facilitate people toward getting to the right spot. So when I graduated, I graduated with in biology. In, you know, wet lab, like bench work, like the test tubes and all the experiments of whatever. And so I did a lot of that, but I also did a lot of the computer, like the coding. So I did a lot of the scientific computing and stuff like that. Bioinformatics minor. And I think what I was missing at the time was recognizing, like, what would be the best fit for me, like, where should my career trajectory go? Because I had a lot of skills and I like doing a lot of different things, like synthesizing data and actually doing the computational work. But I lacked the resources and also just the, like, mentorship. I'D say to figure out exactly, like, what I wanted to do with that, like, which kind of roles in biopharma or academia would actually be a good fit for my skill set. People would just say, go get a research technician job and then go to grad school. But they weren't being very specific about how do you figure out what grad school's right for you? How do you figure out how to find the right experts who can actually mentor you and teach you the techniques that you want to know for your best fit? So any. So what I did over the last year was kind of figure that out. I did some independent projects to kind of try to get a feel for how I like the work that I was thinking I wanted to do, which is kind of like patient centric modeling. So, like, can we take a patient's data? Can we see? Oh, here's the probability they're going to respond to this medicine. Well, here's the probability that, like, because of their genetics, we shouldn't give them this medicine for five days in a row, that kind of thing. And that really was a synthesis of, like, again, the actual biology, like, the. Benchmark side, but also the computation. So where I'm at right now is I was looking for grad programs that we're going to support that goal, and that was easier said than done. Like, I had to do a lot of LLM searches and a lot of my own kind of work to do that. And I think that that's where proper networking and proper counseling in college can really come again. It can streamline that process of figuring out, okay, Which programs are going to be a good fit for where you want to go, given what you like and don't like about your major and minor. So that's kind of a good overview, I'd say so.  
Me: Yeah, yeah, that's. That's. That's. That level sets me for sure. Given that you're looking for grad schools now, I guess. When did you. When did you start looking for grad schools, and when did you start making that decision that you wanted to do that?  
Them: Sure. Yeah. I'd say about August of this year. So what. What ended up happening is I always planned on taking a gap year for exactly this reason, Jake. Like the reason that I wanted to take some time off. Plenty of people go, what they call straight through, where you, like, go right to grad school. But for me, I was like, listen, I. I see the state of the macroeconomic conditions and the job market, and I'm like, look, if I'm. I'm not going to just commit to something if conditions are this volatile in the world, is changing this much. So I'm going to bide my time, even if it's a little more painful in the short. Term, which it's been difficult in some ways, and I'll tell you later, but I'm going to bide my time and actually think about, like, what program is actually going to help me get to this point on my trajectory, which is really like me doing what I'm describing. Colleges and networking could do but for myself. So in about August, I think I recognize that I had it fleshed out well enough, this patient centric modeling approach. And by then I had also tested out starting out these projects, and I'd like the work involved. So that's what got me to grad school. So about August was when this realization came. To me.  
Me: Okay. And prior to that, were you. Still, like, were you. Were you looking for a job throughout that time, or were you more focused on those kind of independent projects and the pharmacogenomics kind of world?  
Them: Yeah, well, I was looking for a job up until I think decently until July. I've had this bridge job for a while. Where I actually have been you might have seen on the I've been doing this math instruction for an after school program and at San Francisco. So that's what I've been doing for a while in tandem. I was looking for new things, but, you know, again, I was still kind of on the research technician kick until about then. And so after I kind of got to the realization that that wasn't going to work that well for me, I kind of started focusing on the projects and saying, Look, I'm going to do this bridge job at least until December, which is now to give me time to and, you know, the facilities to do my graduate school applications, which are just more important. As of right now, I haven't looked for any. I did started looking for jobs again because I'm going to be leaving that job starting, like, next week or something. So I started looking for some more, like clinical trial coordinator and other, like, data entry jobs that are within hospital settings because I do want to get familiar with them. And, yeah, so I started. I started up looking again, but it's really supposed to be another bridge role until grad school.  
Me: Okay?  
Them: That's the idea.  
Me: And what is, what has that job search look looked like for you in terms of, like, volume responses? It seems like I'm hearing the same answer every time I ask that, but I'm wondering what. What you're. What your take is on it.  
Them: Sure. Well, I'll tell you. I would say that volume has been pretty high, like, considerably high. The way that I did it was a little bit different than I think other people would for these research technician jobs. Often I would just approach. I would, like, email the principal investigator of the labs and, like, I would send them a resume and I would write a little bit about why I thought it was a good fit. So I think that kind of. That kind of changes the way the volume looks because I'm not just typing in applications and stuff like that. I was trying to do outreach. I didn't get very many responses. I'd say it wasn't really that different than applying actually like three deed or whatever, but. Or indeed or Glassdoor, something like that, but. Or LinkedIn easy apply. But it still was at least good for some of the responses to be more personal, because sometimes it was easier for them to say a few words like oh, check back later because we need a technician then, or something like that. But anyway, so that's. That's what I would say about volume is it's pretty high, but kind of like, you know, it was just a different form.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: And what was the other part of the question, Jake? I forget.  
Me: Just. It was really just getting a sense of what your response rate was like. So volume and response rate.  
Them: No. I did. I did some math on this because that's, you know, the. The. The sole modeling thing. Right. There's a reason that I got into it, but I'd say. It kind of varied. It was something like maybe 10% to. Maybe, maybe 10% to. I think at the best it was 15% at one point. And I kept recalculating that percentage, so that was like, that was okay. You know, people responded, but they'd say, we don't have funding. And now with the administration, that just got worse. So anyway.  
Me: Right. Okay? And then you mentioned networking. I think that. Well, first off, I think that your approach has a much higher response rate from what I've typically been hearing from people. So I think your approach is above average or better than average. Right. For what it's worth,  
Them: Yeah. Good.  
Me: I want to touch in on networking. So you mentioned that you tried to do a little bit. How do you network today? How effective is that? What are some of the struggles that you face with it?  
Them: Fair enough. Well. So when I just. As soon as the way I've done it has kind of evolved over the time that I've been out of undergrad. So when I first came out of it, really, I would just kind of reach out to people that, you know, that I know who are in biology. And again, this was. When I didn't have a super great idea of again what trajectory I wanted to follow. So that would. It would really just kind of be reaching out to them and kind of like looking online to see what questions should you ask in networking, you know, in a networking call or a coffee chat or whatever. And I'm like, okay. So I kind of followed what I found online.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: I think that. And I would also look for people on LinkedIn who were doing stuff that I thought was interesting to me. Like, some people who are more on, like, industry bioinformatics as opposed to modeling, like, you know, integrating clinical data. They were more like, okay. I'm gonna work for this company, and I want to make it so that they're simp how fast they analyze their samples. You know, increases their speed of, you know, clearance or whatever. So anyway, so that was kind of how I would do it at first, is I would just kind of search keywords on LinkedIn and I would also just talk to people my parents knew and, you know, that my, you know, other people knew. And I think the reason that wasn't as effective as kind of what I started doing later. Where what I started doing later is I started actually looking for people that were doing the thing or the kind of projects that I would. Would do. And, you know, I would, like, type in, instead of just like, people in bioinformatics or like, blah, blah, blah, I would say something like patient centric modeling. Like, I would use the keywords that I, like, would want to describe about my own projects, and I would use that to kind of start to comb through the LinkedIn. You know the LinkedIn indices. And that it hasn't amounted to a huge amount yet because I haven't done a lot of it because I've been focused on building my own brand by building my portfolio up. But I do think that it's helped that I've kind of done that. And also it amounted to this friend. Of mine who graduated two years ago, she works for a company, and they need someone doing bioinformatics in a way that is similar to me, like exploratory analyses and for these models. And so that actually, I think I'm going to interview for that internship that she found for me. So I think that is definitely telling you something. Like, once I start looking for the actual things as opposed to just the job titles, that definitely made a difference. So you probably heard that before, but I with that.  
Me: This whole experience. While finding people to talk to has been difficult, the people that I have spoken with, it's been a gold mine of information, right?  
Them: Yeah, absolutely. Okay, good.  
Me: It's also weird because there's definitely more people looking for jobs than there are available. So it's the nature of the economy right now, whether or not they call it a recession or not.  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: We're in one, but anyway.  
Them: Yeah. It seems like it to me.  
Me: What tools are you using for that? Using LinkedIn primarily, as you're looking for people specifically, or any other tools to find those people.  
Them: Yeah, LinkedIn is the primary one, obviously. I go look at my mutual connections. I mean, that's kind of like I told you I would do the search bar. But also, I do look at mutuals, which was, again, it's really a modification of what I was doing before. I would do that before, but I would just kind of look up whoever my parents knew or whoever somebody knew or whoever, like, my professors knew. But now I'm really trying to look for, like, can I actually match the keywords and, like, the. The nature of what I'm doing to what these people are doing. And that seems to be better.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: I'm trying to think about what else. About what else I would do here. So you repeat the question one more time. I'm sorry. It's loud outside.  
Me: I would just look like looking for what tools that you were using to find these people that you would want to connect with. And I would imagine that LinkedIn was probably the go to because options are slim.  
Them: That's true. It's hard.  
Me: Professional networking.  
Them: I have been planning on. Here's something I haven't quite executed yet, but it is planned, is that I want to try. And sometimes I really do just try to look through companies like I look up in Google.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: Or in an LLM or whatever. I would go to Google and I would say, like, what are companies doing? Patrix centric modeling? Or like, something adjacent to Patriot Patient centric modeling. And sometimes that would get me toward what I wanted to get to instead, instead of just going to LinkedIn and typing into the search. Bar. Sometimes I try to do company first and. Or it could be lab first. Right. It might be a lab doing what's interested in what I'm interested in doing. So that. That's another option. I'd say so, yeah. I'd say those two right now.  
Me: Sure. Yeah. Okay? And then what? We're just to kind of give you an idea of at least what the idea that we're testing right now, that's why we're having all these conversations, is we just want to validate the hypothesis before we go build something that no one wants, right?  
Them: There you go. That's the statistical check. I get it.  
Me: Yeah. So it's like we have this idea that we want to build closer, more meaningful connections with people in a way that LinkedIn. I mean, for example, I have over 1,000 LinkedIn connections. I think I've met probably 50 of them face to face in person before. Right. So if I'm going to go look at my network for someone that might be in a specific field. I've probably never talked to them before, even though they're in my. In my network, right?  
Them: Right. That happens a lot. Yeah.  
Me: Yeah. So it's like we're trying to, like, how. How can we create a sense of real community between people and, like. Because I think that as we've progressed in society, we becoming more and more disconnected. So the idea is that we want to bring people together on platforms that they're already on, as opposed to interesting yet another app. So we don't want to come up with some new app. We want to maybe tie into the messaging systems that people are already using.  
Them: Sure. Sure.  
Me: And connect people that way. So I guess I'm wondering, what messaging platforms are you actively using that you're using to communicate with others on? Whether it's, you know, just straight up SMS, iMessage or WhatsApp or Discord or Slack. Like, what are you active on a regular basis?  
Them: Well, I mean, LinkedIn is one of them. I go to it from time to time. I do try to reduce my consumption of it because I think that it can skew a little bit too negative to the point where I think that this is a problem with all social media. Is that it? Obviously, you know, it rewards negative engagement. Right. In some engagement with negative content. And so I'm just like, or negative content drives engagement. So I do try to limit that. And, but I do use, I do use LinkedIn to talk to people. I've reached out to a couple of folks in quantitative pharmacology, and this kind of thing sms. Obviously I do use when I'm like messaging a mutual connection that somebody might know. Email is a big one too. I mean I do try to if I can find a somewhat company email and you know I have the guts to do it, that's a good way to do it. So I'm trying to think about. What are the ones? What's up? Not really. I think I get a lot of, like, spammy messages on WhatsApp. So that's one thing I think my girlfriend does, though. Like, even though she's, you know, fully employed right now, and she is, she's having to find. Time, but I think she can connect with some industry professionals and environmental science, which is what she does.  
Me: Okay?  
Them: I think she does that there. So, I mean, yeah, LinkedIn is the primary one for me, but I do. And I mean. I mean, slack. I'd communicate with my coworkers and whatever, but, yeah, you know, I. So I'd say kind of the typical ones for me.  
Me: Y. Eah. And then I guess my last question that I've kind of been asking everyone is just like, as you're looking for your opportunity, I guess maybe post grad school.  
Them: Yes.  
Me: Do you. Do you have any specific routes in your current location that would. That would keep you focused in your community? Would you want to work locally in a physical location? Do you want to. I mean, obviously, it sounds like, given what you do, you'll need to be in a lab in a, like, a lab setting, so. Like working with Moby doesn't really feel like a possibility for you specifically, but are you looking for any specific area or are you like, you know, what with the market being what it will likely be by the time grad school is done, I'll probably just need to follow follow the jobs and see where they are.  
Them: Yeah. I think I would lean more toward following. You know, following where the winds blow me. I think that, I mean, I'd be open to coming back to California. One thing that I mean. Full disclosure, this isn't scientific, but it really seems like the entry level market in even for like mid, like out of grad school market for people here in the Bay Area is not that great these days. It just seems like companies are focused more on, you know, you know, trying to maintain their huge code bases and this and that, and instead of expanding. So that's why I'm like, it would be nice to go somewhere else where, you know, maybe things are a little bit less saturated and there. There's. It's easier to make a bit bigger of an impact. And so I'm kind of leaning more toward trying to find greener pastors. But I'm not against coming back here at some point. I just think it might be later in my career. And typically, the professionals that I see that are doing better here are the ones that are maybe in their late 20s and like a little bit further along. Some of them were, you know, the ones that got in and on tech early I'm sure is, you know, but I think some of them might come here a bit later when they have a bit more experience and they kind of can slot into, you know, more mid level roles than like. You know, mid entry level roles. So that's kind of where I'm, I'm. Obviously, you know, I'd miss my community, but I think it's time for something new anyway and. Yeah, so, you know, and that's why my grad schools are mostly on the are kind of scattered around. The country. I have a couple, and I, you know, be happy to stay in one of the towns there that, you know, go to, like, there, like, Case Western is on. Is on my list, and there's some other ones. There's like. I mean, obviously Hopkins and Baltimore and stuff like that, so, you know. It push comes to shove it. Might get me into an entry level role there. And so I'm not against that. And I think that it's more realistic given the dynamics of what I see happening around me, so, having grown up here too. Right, so.  
Me: Yeah. I got one last question for you, and this is more of a multiple choice on. On the online quiz, but I think for this, I'm going to leave it open, open ended for you. What is that, like, hardest part about? You know, I'm going to call it just professional networking in general. But, like, I include the job hunt in that internship hunting, that, meeting those people. What is the most difficult part of that? That's like, why is this so hard? I wish this piece of this was easier. It should be easier.  
Them: I think the biggest thing for me is not even the legwork, like the putting in the effort to tailor applications, whatever, because I feel like that kind of makes sense, like, if you're a good fit. You want to explain why? I just think that it's the radio silence, like the fact that so much of the time you don't hear from people or they read your emails. Like, I turned on Mail Track to see if anyone was even reading these things. And like, a lot of people do read them, but they just don't. They just don't pay attention to it. Like, I think, I really think part of it is the volume problem. If I put in, like, nine really great applications, even if I got rejected from them, I'm going to feel a lot better about them than if I put in 100. And, like, most of them are good and still I hear from none of them. So I think some of it is just, man. The silence is just deafening, I guess. So go, you know.  
Me: Yeah. That's a very common response to that, to that question. You know, it's. It's like there's. I almost want to say there might be comfort in knowing that, like, you're not alone in that world because, like, I'm hearing the same things from everyone. Just this overall frustration with the volume of response of applications they submit no response.  
Them: Yes.  
Me: And then, you know, even when they do get a response, then they might get ghosted after their first response.  
Them: Yes.  
Me: And it just feels like they're submitting resumes into a black hole. Right. I. I talked to a recent college grad Yesterday who submitted 4,000 resumes and got one interview at a 4,000 resumes.  
Them: Happen to me.  
Me: Now she's an international student and requires sponsorship, which, like, makes, like, five times as hard for, like, that.  
Them: Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah, absolutely.  
Me: It's still. It's still just. So painful.  
Them: I know it's demoralizing because it really makes you feel like it doesn't really matter what you do. Like, you aren't really valued because, like, nobody's biting at all. But, I mean, it's not that. I know that's not the case because of the huge volume of things. But I don't know.  
Me: Yeah. Yeah.  
Them: It's just. It's hard. So. But again, this is why I'm trying to go a different direction in general, which is that I'm going to try and meet the right people who are doing the things that I actually want to do and now have done by building up this portfolio. So I am trying to shift my strategy. And I think that, you know, in a dynamic world like this, where things are getting automated, and I mean, to the. To which extent no one knows yet, but, you know, I still think that, well, then at that point, you better know your brand, you better know your people. Who like you can contribute to, and they can contribute to you. And that's where I'm headed.  
Me: Right.  
Them: And.  
Me: The best. The best relationships are mutually beneficial. Right.  
Them: Exactly. Yeah. I mean, that's just life in general, isn't it? So, you know.  
Me: So. Yeah. Y. Eah. Right. Exactly.  
Them: Common sense. So what are you going to do?  
Me: Well, again, thank you so much for taking the time with me. Sorry for being this late, but this was fantastic. I really appreciate your time.  
Them: That's okay. Yeah, well, no. No worries, Jake. And if you have any other questions, feel free to message me. You know, I'm around. And again, as you can, as you know. No, I check it. I've been checking it more lately, so.  
Me: Okay? Awesome. Appreciate it. Awesome.  
Them: Yeah, no problem.  
Me: Thank you so much. That was nice meeting you.  
Them: It was good to meet you, too. Okay. You have a good one. Okay.  
Me: Too. Thanks. Bye. 